
Gallipoli October 22nd 1915  Mother, Dad & Jennie Dear ones Just a short note to let you know I am well & happy I received your parcel "OK" & the contents were simply "Top hole". But mother dear you shouldn't waste your money on me.  I have everything I can possibly want.  The chemists shop you sent me will last me 12 months at least. You should have seen us. Leslie Grove an English laddie who was away with me in New Guinea had a parcel the same time, also from his Mother & Dad in England whom he hasn't seen for about 5 years.  Of course he must rush round to my dug out to open it. So we broke the two strings together. xxxxxx By this time 3 more friends must crowd in to see the cause of the excitement. Well! talk about school boys thy they were not in it compared to us.
There wasn't room inside, as it is only 6ft 6in long 4 ft. wide & 4 ft high, so we sit at the door tasting lollies & chocolate & sampling the different cigarettes, with grins of delight on our faces, that would have made the sourest old pessimist in the world happy could he have seen us.  'On my word I think we are nothing but a lot of overgrown boys after all, Up to then we were unable to get anything like that, but now there is to be a regular supply every week of everything one could possibly want.  From Keatings Powder to Shaving Utensils & chocolates to Curry Powder & every kind of tinned fish & Fruit etc that you could think of & at the cheapest prices.  Ridiculously cheap in fact.  So you see we are well looked after now. But wasn't I glad of that parcel.  The Rose, Scented Geranium, & Ivy all came safely.  It took me back to the dear old Nest.  It must have been one of the last roses of this year.  You couldn't possibly get any pears to me, they would be quite bad.  I shall have some of next 
years crop instead & I'll pick them myself. I am so glad you liked my photo.  I find I have quite a number of friends in Sydney who write to me constantly.  I received one today from the girl who sent that to you, telling me that it had gone & that you must have received it by now.  It was a snap taken by Leslie Grove. (whom I have already mentioned) a few days before leaving Liverpool NSW for the front & I expressed a wish in her hearing, that I would like an enlargement sent to you.  She immediately volunteered to do so, & secured, I afterwards discovered, the negative from Leslie.  I gave her your address never really expecting to hear any more of it.  I feel now as if I ought to apologise to her for doubting her promise.  It was real good to go to that trouble & expense for a comparative stranger.  We were only introduced by a fellow soldier of mine at the camp a week or so before, while on a visit to him. I received Jennie's double letter to a day or two ago but found a difficulty in finding paper to reply on, until your supply came to hand. So the next page is
especially for her. I am glad young Chambers recovered his sight. After all you did in the hospital without avail & then one little act of God & instant recovery.  The age of miracles has not passed.  I see that every day here.  Why only this week I can tell you of two instances. - A large high explosive shell fell among a few of my friends who were yarning and - did not explode.  Last evening about 5 o'clock a fellow, Norman Lewis, was standing upon a knoll about 20 yards from us & Whiz-Bang Mr 75 comes over our heads & into the ground about 50 inches from him, blew a big hole in the earth, & never even scratched him.  I might mention here, he is one of the coolest customers I have ever met.  Simply turned round & said "Nearly got a new dug-out" & walked quietly on about his business. I have not come across Regie here.  You must remember there are a good many miles of front & its highly improbable we should meet. Why on earth do you wish you were me.  Since you have been nursing & helping to patch up damaged soldiers, you appear to have become quite blood thirsty
Not a bit like the dear quiet little sister I left behind.  Still I'll give 'em one for you if I get a chance; but I've a few little debts of my own to wipe off first. I would just loved to have caught you all in your "Robes des nuit" when the Zepps passed over.  I'm very thankful to think you came to no harm.  If only I knew you were all safe from those diabolical machines I wouldn't worry. I say Dad!  Here, play the game fair.  It's your turn to write to me.  Dont let the girls do it all. Just a few lines about yourself & "biz" & any old thing that comes along.  What's C  Ken Smith doing?  I know you simply hate writing.  Well just between you ourselves so do I, but we must make an effort these times. What! I am going to try & send Rosie a note.  I guess with her little brood she doesn't have much time to write & goodness knows I ought to write to all the Aunties; but really I haven't too 
much time. What do you think of the enclosed envelope isn't it a fine idea By the way the corrections are quite in order. My promotion was gazetted today. I am very glad, because I know you all will be glad to see our officers place some confidence in my ability to carry out another an important, responsible I should say, job. Good night dear ones, God bless & guard you all. Your loving Son & brother Ernie.

Oh! I say Jennie!  I didn't get those photos of you.  I wonder where they have got to I expect they will wander round & get returned like the letters did. & if you are writing, just tell that wife of mine, that those letters she had returned to her, bears my name on the envelope., & therefore my property. Just let me catch her destryg destroying them. Thats all! I waited paitently
till October 1915 for them & by jingo I want 'em. Destroy them!  After travelling about 30,000 miles without me having seen them! Preposterous! Never heard of such a thing! Destro.