
Author: Wilfred Griffith Barlow
Date: Unknown.
Rank: Lieutenant.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:  Dear Goodsir I am snatching a moment as I await a court martial on some men at which I am a witness.  Well I had a lovely trip to England and saw England's sea strength.  The torpedo boats are wonderful they can rush ahead to & fro in front of a troopship like a dog does in a field in front of his master.  We were nearly in a bad way for a boat was sunk 80 miles ahead of us but we were skillfully guided through all dangers.  The great Eddison lighthouse was a grand sight one evening. The cattle at Devon are very fine.  They are red and all in good condition.  Though it was autumn there is plenty of grass.  The country is just like your paddocks (the best ones).   Wet & hilly. It is strange to see the fowl houses in the little fields & the fences of mud & hedges. It is similiar weather to Daylesford.  I stand the cold well but of course I am well wrapped up. In our rooms we have stores like you had at the Ridge school.   But the do not smoke much & we burn coal. I saw the great Westminister Abbey & went to matins there. The voices of the choir boys vibrated through the great ceiling.  Every- where there are slabs showing someone is buried there. There are all the regimental flags on Wolfe's statue St Pauls is a sight.  I was shown into the Crypt a place below the catheral in which there are several chapels & the great tombs of Nelson & Wellington.
I saw the Indian Princes place a wreath on "Bobs" Robert's grave.  It was a solemn ceremony for several of them had tears in their eyes.  I saw all the chairs the kings & queens England sat in.  Many of the best tombs & statues are covered with sand bags for protection.  The pigeons at Parliament house & Trafalgar square are tame & fly onto one's shoulders.  Queen Victorias monument in front of Buckingham Palace is magnificent.  I saw the Horse Guards & they saluted as I passed & I saluted them. I heard Asquith & Lloyd Georges & Redmond speak in the House of Commons.  I was admitted through the courtesy of a member named John Burns.  My Uncle was very kind to me & showed me all things. We don't expect to be at the front for a few weeks yet but our men leave in a few weeks for certain.  I have many letters yet to write so you must excuse my short note this time.  Remember me to all on the Ridge.  I often think of you all & some day if I'm spared I'll run up to Ridge & see you all again.  I hope the children keep well & that Auntie & Mrs Fare also well. I suppose Goodie is working hard at school now & I will be pleased to hear he is getting on. Remember me to little Florrie.  She was a good girl at school too.  I hope Willie is not moving barns & houses yet but is settled down in his home now. How does Fairy go?  She took me many a hundred miles &  fast too.  As I write the booming of guns & bombs & the rattle of rifles maxim & Lewis guns helps to let you know why you are here but of course it is only practise yet. The tanks are wonderful 300 horse power 50' X 15' & hold 3 guns throw 6 lbs shells & several maxims & 9 men can go up or down holes or buildings 12 feet high & are 12" steel armoured.  I see many mules here blueies, chestnuts, white & blacks they are useful beasts yet a little donkeyish. Goodbye this time.  I hope I hear from you soon.
Yours sincerely Lt. W. G. Barlow .

Address reply to Lt W. G. Barlow c/o G. E. May Esq 103 Dagnall Park,
S. Norwood SE. England