
Author: Wilfred Griffith Barlow
Date: 15 April 1917. Location: France, Firing line.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:


Dear Goodsir, I think I wrote to Willie last. I am at last sitting in a dry place (a tent) but I am wet through & feeling very cold as I write.  I am really writing to do something to keep my mind occupied with other things than the war.  We have been trying to rest for about a week but we no sooner get settled than we have to suddenly pack up & run up & occupy some forward position to either annoy Fritz or else stop him trying to get through.  As I write there is such heavy artillery bombardment going on I believe I'll have to stop if it continues as we'll have to "stand to" again.  Fritz has been getting a severe doing near by to our sector & he tried to take vengenance out of we poor chaps but I think we have taught him a lesson. We are right on his strong line and it is like teasing a wolf in a cage.  He comes out at us very seldom but if he does we just give him a severe handling.  The open warfare suits us best. It is not nice advancing to the attack under heavy artillery fire but our lads press on unheeding. A good bombardment is called "a drumming".  The guns just bang & boom away incessantly.  The noise is deafening.  The balloons go up & the side that has mastery of the air quickly set them on fire or cause them to be lowered.  There are some lovely horses here but the old mule is the best for transport work . I've had a few reconnoitring rides on old "crocks". But it didn't matter for they carried me through the shells & then one in particular took me safely home one black
night & he had to carry me between nasty holes & craters but he was sure footed.  The animals get used to the shells etc and though some shy at a dead horse or man they are nearly all used to anything.  There are a lot of hares about here now.  The country is very suitable for farming.  The soil is just lovely & has a nice clay bottom. This day (16th April) has been a nice fine spring day till now. 6 pm & it is raining again.  I received 2 Daylesford Papers one day and I did enjoy the reading.  I saw a few Daylesford lads lately.  I saw young McKinnon (who used to be in my company at Daylesford) last night. He is a corporal & I looked very well. Today I got 6 nice letters from home and some little photos. These photos are a grand link with home. I got a letter from Mr S. Patterson of Dry Diggings also & I hear he has lost one son here. The news I've just heard is again grand we got 600 prisoners after the little attack Fritz made the other evening. He got one of a balloons just now but down came one of his soon afterwards.  We are masters of the air again. Our planes can fly up or down sidewards, in fact any way at great speed. Our lads are singing choruses as I write. It is raining but they are cheerful.  I'm sure the Germans are not singing. They look so downhearted when we get them. There is a lot of sugar beet & root crops grown here. We have luckily had no gas lately as the warfare isn't suitable for it. We give & get gas shells though but the results are local. It is grand to see our big guns at work you can see the 9.2 inch shell fly up in the air on its deadly mission & follow it till it turns to drop then you miss it. I've seen heaps of these shells ready round a gun to be sent on to Fritz. They are soon all gone. I'd sooner be at the gun end. We hope this cruel warfare will soon end but we are determined to give our lives to see a thrashing dealt out to the cruel Germans if necessary to make him go on his knees for Peace. Remember me to all at Ridge Mrs B tells of your kind invitations to stay with you.   I'll come some day 
Goodby till next-time Goodsir. Yours very sincerely, W. G. Barlow