
Author: Wilfred Griffith Barlow Location: Basalt, Elsternwick Date: 29 July 1916
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Home again at.

Dear Goodsir,  I'm home again but this time  I'm on final leave. I've got till Monday night.  It seems very short but I'm making the most of it.  I have my full company now of 165 men & 1 officer.  Mr E Ryan (son of Dr Ryan of Glenferrie). He is a fine  fella & I believe (though he is a RC) that we will be  fast chums. I am delighted with my men & they  think the world of me I so stimulate one to further  efforts on their behalf. I had them at musketry for  a week at Williamstown & I find I have some good  shots. We are due to sail in August but nothing is  definite. I was going to try a push up to the Ridge  before I left but I can't do it. We are all well at  home & I trust they will keep so till I get back  for Mr B has plenty of work when all is well.  I am fortunate in receiving a Case of magazines for  my company from Gordon & Gotch & a wealthy lady  is giving each of my men socks, shirts & underpants  & Lt Ryan & myself a pair of 15 guinea field glasses,  each. I told you my Coy is 5/58 Bn which is doing  all the work at the front in France at present.  (The Anzac Bn) It is good to reinforce such a  fine Battalion. Col Davis is my Bn Com & General  Elliot my brigadier (15 brigade) My colors are purple red  so P.R. We are all so anxious to get away but no  doubt will be just as anxious to return 2 our dears ones.
Remember me kindly to all at the Ridge & let me have  a "Ridge" letter at least once a month. If you want  any news write to Mrs B to find out where I am any time.  We are going to Salisbury Plains first. The trip takes  about 8 weeks via Cape. I'd like a ride on Fairy  again. Some day I may have that pleasure Aye?  & I believe if Tich is there still & "Auntie" will not  look I'll try a ride on him also. How is little Howie  Fowler getting on? Surely she can write a letter to her  old crabby teacher. She could write splendidly once -  I suppose she has forgotten me. I have not forgotten any of the  Ridge folk. I learnt a lesson in tidiness from Freddie  Russell I think I'll never forget. Remember the night  Fred & I stayed at John place. Well Fred folded his  clothes with wonderful "exactitude" & I do that myself  now even in camp I remember it. Remember me to Fred R.  There are hundreds of incidents crop up as I write  but I must write several letters now I have a minute  of quietness at home. I have a nice letter from  Wakhem school committee which I value & place  alongside the one I got from the Ridge. When the war  is over & all is quiet again I'll delight in again  taking up my profession. Why since I got to camp I  got my numerical from last school 95 so I think  I must be a teacher Aye But this little "scrap" in  France is very interesting to me at present & till I've  won through that is where my heart & work is.  Ta ta till next time Goodsir  & don't forget a letter once a month at  least. Yours very sincerely W.G.Barlow  O.C. 5/58th Bn A.I.F.  B'meadows 