Author: Wilfred Griffith Barlow
Location: In firing line France Date: 2 March 1917.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:
 
Dear Goodsir,  I am at last at the nasty job.  I'm having a little spell for a day or 2 after a fight. I had a quick  passage to the firing line. I'm sitting now under the heavy gun fire of the foe  yet we consider it is safe here compared with where I've been. This is an awful  war alright. Now I know what it is really you people at home are spared a  dreadful thing and I'd fight again after this war to keep it out of our country.  There are sure very big guns first near me as I write & they keep shaking me.  There are balloons & aeroplanes over head & a host of army parts abound. So far the eye can see. The Germans are retreating before us fast and we though pleased at  this are wild at the distance we have to tramp to get at him now. They are blowing the whole country to pieces as they go. Of course our guns do it first. Fritz will be in a town or village & we'll simply blow him out of it (& then the village out too) with our guns. Then we rush forward & take his trench or is possible before he can destroy them.  The beautiful places are just obliterated. I can't describe it but if you see a  frightful picture of any of the Somme battle fields then you only have a glimpse of  what the places are like. I have not lost 1 man yet and besides a cold am very fit  myself. I continually meet old chums even on the battle field. The transport  & all ordnance & stores munition depts of our army are wonderful & do excellent  work. The old mule is a great friend here We march miles along "duck boards"  to the firing line. There are so many shell holes that one couldn't get along  without these boards. The loads we carry forward are very heavy & one  feels inclined to fall sometimes under the load yet on we plod  I got one letter from Mrs Barlow right up as I was fighting and I  longed to get the job over to read that letter I can tell you The germans are grand aviators & seem to be master here in the  air but we're got him doing a retreat & are belting him back.  The gas is a nuisance we have to wear our respirators all the time  The beggar popped a few tear shells into my position the night  I was being relieved but it didn't hurt us. We find he has lovely  dug outs I had some on my sector up to 30 ft deep all clean &  nicely boarded. The cunning beggars had left these dug outs ready  for demolition with guncotton on the walls etc. but I took the  explosive all off & then let my men go down below. He had trip  wire etc to explode these things as we got inside I didn't like the job of  getting these dug outs cleaned up I can tell you. Talk about mud I never  saw such mud. We came out of the line fit to score a host of satan's soldiers  let alone Germans. Long beards & dirty clothes boots & faces. Just like the filthiest person you've ever seen but all in good heart & glad to have a spell  I've not had one letter from you yet but I expect some will come soon.  We find the Germans are well feed & filled for the fight & it is sad to find  when you enter a trench & take it that in the letters of the dead germans  there are letters to their wives & little ones & maybe a photo etc. I hope  the war will soon stop now for it is sapping out the best of men &  all that is beautiful in civilized life. May be you'll read about the  time you get this of our great advance. No doubt Fritz will call a  halt directly & then we'll get shaft. They don't like the Australians as  fighters. The scenes at night here are grand. yet terrible for the whole place  is lit up by rockets & flares. Hope all are well & prospering at Ridge  Remember me kindly to Millie & all your dear ones. I hope  to see you all some day & then I'll talk (You are saying he always  could) Your sincere friend W. Barlow 