Text:

The First World War was a conflict like no other, unprecedented in the history of warfare to that point. From 1914 to 1918, Europe’s largest empires fought a new kind of war with modern weapons, masses of troops and huge death tolls. There were many, many important battles, big and small, during the Great War, but this is the information on the first world war top 10 battles.

So here are the top 10 most important battles of the First World War. This is in no particular order or rank.
First up we have the First Battle of the Marne. This came right at the start of the First World War. Germany was hoping to avoid fighting on two fronts by knocking France out of the war first and then turning to Russia. After initial German offensive success, the British and French then withdrew to the river Marne in what is now known as the Great Retreat. They were able to hold the Germans there, who didn’t have enough reinforcements to continue the push. Then, in early September, the French and British launched a counter-offensive and after several days of bitter fighting, the Germans were forced to retreat. 
That German failure to quickly defeat the Allies scuppered their plans. Though the Battle of Tannenberg in the east against the Russians had been a success, the combination meant that the war would not be over anytime soon. The battle also marked the end of mobile warfare on the Western Front. The terrible casualties sustained out in the open meant that soldiers began to dig trenches, which would come to dominate the Western Front until 1918.
Next up is Gallipoli. Now, this was the land-based part of a larger strategy to allow Allied ships to capture Constantinople and knock Ottoman Turkey out of the war. But those lofty goals would not be met. The first Allied landings were easily contained by Ottoman troops with a stalemate quickly setting in, most famously at Anzac Cove where Australian and New Zealand troops were based. In the summer heat casualties mounted heavily. Sickness was rampant, food quickly became inedible and there were vast swarms of black flies everywhere. Later a new assault was launched at Sulva bay, but this too failed and stalemate quickly returned.
In December, it was finally decided to evacuate. Gallipoli would become a defining moment in the history of both Australia and New Zealand, revealing traits that both countries have used to define themselves ever since. For the Ottomans, it was a brief respite in the decline of their empire. But through the emergence of Atatürk who lead the Ottoman defence, it also laid the foundations of modern Turkey.
Next up we have The Battle of Jutland, the largest naval battle of the First World War. It was also the only time that the British and German fleets dreadnoughts actually came to blows.  The German High Seas Fleet hoped to ambush the Royal Navy in the North Sea. But the British were warned by their codebreakers and put their forces to sea early.  Jutland was a confused and bloody action involving 250 ships and around 100,000 men. The Germans damaged one flagship, HMS Lion, and sank HMS Indefatigable, HMS Queen Mary and HMS Invincible when shells hit their ammunition magazines. When the main British fleet arrived though, the outgunned Germans turned for home.
The British lost 14 ships and over 6,000 men but were ready for action the next day. The Germans had lost just 11 ships but would never again seriously challenged British control of the North Sea and that allowed Britain to implement the blockade that would contribute to German defeat in 1918. 
Next up we have the longest battle of the First World War: The Battle of Verdun. It began with a ten-hour German bombardment of the fortifications around the town, with the largest fort at Douaumont falling to the German within five days, but casualties quickly mounted after that. In the summer, the Germans troops were moved away to cope with British and Russians offensives elsewhere, allowing France to retake the lost ground. Through the careful management of their army, and the resilience of their troops, France secured a defensive victory before the year’s end.  
430,000 German and 550,000 French were killed or wounded in the battle. The trauma of this loss not only affected French decision-making, but it had a lasting effect on the French national consciousness. The attack at Verdun had drastically reduced the number of French troops available. Meaning Britain and its Empire would have to lead the 'Big Push' on the Western Front.
Next is one you knew would be on this list, The Battle of the Somme. For many in Britain, it's one of the most painful and infamous episodes of the First World War.  The pressure on the French at Verdun throughout 1916 made action on the Somme increasingly urgent, but despite a seven-day bombardment before the attack on 1 July, the British did not achieve the quick breakthrough they were aiming for and the Somme quickly became a deadlocked battle of attrition.  Over the next 141 days, the British advanced a maximum of seven miles. British casualties on the first day alone – numbering over 57,000 – make it the bloodiest day in British military history. 
The Somme, like Verdun for the French, has a prominent place in British history coming to represent the loss and apparent futility of the war. But the Allied offensive on the Somme was a strategic necessity fought to meet the needs of an international alliance. It also, as the first outing of the Tank, taught British commanders important lessons that would contribute to eventual Allied victory in 1918.
Next we're heading to Russia for The Brusilov Offensive. This would be the most successful Russian operation – and one of the most successful breakthrough offensives – of the First World War. Named after the Russian commander who led it, the attack used short, sharp artillery bombardments and shock troops to exploit weak points, which helped return an element of surprise to the attack. 
The Russian attack drew Austro-Hungarian forces away from the Italian Front and put increased pressure on the already strained and increasingly demoralised Austro-Hungarian Army. That meant Germany was forced to redirect troops to the Eastern Front in support of its ally. Austria-Hungary would only become more dependant on Germany as the war went on. For the Russians, they were never able to duplicate Brusilov's success. It was their last major offensive of the war and actually led to an overall weakening – both militarily and politically – of the country. Leading to revolution and eventually the total collapse of the Russian Army.

Next, we have a battle that has come to symbolise the horrors associated with the war on the Western Front. It is frequently known by the name of the village where it culminated – Passchendaele.  By 1917 British troops were suffering steady casualties there, holding a salient surrounded by higher ground. They planned to break out of this poor position and, by capturing an important railway junction , undermine the whole German position in Flanders.
A preliminary operation to seize the Messines Ridge was a dramatic success, but the Germans had reinforced their position by the time the main battle was launched on 31 July. Initial attacks failed due to over-ambitious plans and unseasonal rain that created incredibly muddy conditions. Although the Canadians finally captured Passchendaele Ridge on 10 November, the vital railway still lay five miles away and the offensive was called off. Many soldiers felt utterly demoralised and the government's confidence in Haig hit a low point. Both sides had suffered heavy casualties, but the British Expeditionary Force (BEF) had made no strategic gain.
Next up we have the German Spring Offensives, a calculated gamble for Germany trying to tip the balance on the Western Front once and for all. After the defeat of Russia, Germany had concentrated all of its resources on the Western Front, while facing them were weary Allied forces that had been on the offensive for 3 years. They were met with a huge concentration of German artillery, gas, smoke and infantry who achieved unprecedented gains measured in miles rather than yards. But in the face of the onslaught, the Allied line bent but did not break. The fighting became uncharacteristically open as isolated pockets of defenders attempted to slow the German advance. In fact, Field Marshal Sir Douglas Haig issued a special order of the day using the phrase 'Backs to the Wall' to sum up the desperate but determined fighting.
Whilst the German offensives were tactical successes, they were strategic failures. The advances had no decisive goal other than to punch a hole in the Allied line, primarily targeting the British. German casualties were high, particularly amongst their best units and when the Allies appointed Marshal Ferdinand Foch to co-ordinate the defence, the tide began to turn and by early summer the German offensives had ground to a halt.
The Battle of Amiens heralded the start of the Hundred Days campaign. After surviving the German Spring Offensives, Allied forces launched a counter-punch of their own and from the summer of 1918 onwards, they were constantly on the advance. Through the harsh experiences of the past the Allies had developed new tactics, combining scientific artillery methods and flexible infantry firepower with the use of tanks and aircraft. These combined arms methods were to form a blueprint for wars of future.
The Battle of Amiens opened on 8 August and on that first day the British made gains of seven miles. German General Erich Ludendorff described it as the 'black day' of the German Army. But unlike offensives of the past, the Allies knew when to stop. After four days of fighting at Amiens the battle was halted, with a fresh offensive launched elsewhere. Although casualties were high, the gains were decisive. By November the German Army could fight no longer. The Hundred Days was an impressive feat of arms that led to Allied victory.
And finally, there was the Battle of Megiddo which marked the beginning of the final offensive in the Sinai and Palestine Campaign. The offensive opened with an intense but brief artillery bombardment. British and Commonwealth forces quickly broke through the battered Ottoman lines with an advance of over 30km on the first day. The Desert Mounted Corps then quickly pushed through gaps and managed to encircle the Ottoman troops. The 7th and 8th Armies collapsed under the pressure of the attack, surrendering in their tens of thousands. 
Victory at Megiddo opened the way to Damascus, which Australian troops entered on 1 October. In the weeks that followed, the Allies captured more strategically important towns. Finally forcing the Ottomans to sue for peace on the 30th of October.
So there you have it, that’s the top 10 most important battles of the First World War. Let me know what's your ranking of these battles.  Which was the most important to you? Or did I miss one that you think really matters? Let me know. 