France 3.7.1916.
My dear Mum We are once again in the thick of the fighting against Fritz this time instead of Joe Burke and although we have only been in the firing line a very short while our casualties have been large several officers and men haveing left us killed, wounded, & shell shock. One has no chance if caught with the large shells, bombs etc the Germans send across. of course he gets something to go on with from us.  also it is a perfect hell when these artillery duels start and they do start every day and night I have seen some awful sights already men having their heads blown clean off etc but why talk of these things I do not know if you will receive this letter or previous ones written from France we do not know anything about postal arrangements yet.  however will chance to luck. I have just come away from the trenches for 5 days to attend a bombing school where I am writing this letter from  at present. It is situated about 10 miles from the trenches and situated in an ideal spot pretty farms around plenty of crops, cherry trees, etc the hedges and walks are simply lovely I am doting on the rest and beautiful scenery, fresh eggs, milk, butter etc for while in the trenches you get no sleep and a hell of a row going on all the while which is very nerve racking have had several narrow escapes from shrapnel & shell but so far have been lucky I am down here learning something about bombs having been detailed for bombing officer to the battalion of course it is a very tick tricky job and expect to be blown up with the rotten things sooner or later which of course is all in the game. Bombing plays a large part in the war here raids on the enemy's trenches etc so if lucky enough to pull through will have had some great experiences exciting stunts which of course may be a bit too exciting I wonder if you Father received a cable from me I sent across with Mr. Davis one of our officers who went to London on leave and got him to send it across from there saying I was in France & well also asked for £50 to be sent to the Commonwealth Bank London There is no chance of getting across yet all leave having been stopped since we went into the trenches however I have a sort of feeling I shall go to England sooner or later and shall then have some the money there waiting for me if unlucky of course I presume there will be no trouble about getting them to send it back home. to Australia. Tell Lorna I received her letter dated 14-5-16 also 2 heralds and splashes from home in the trenches a couple of days ago and was very pleased to hear the news also received letter from you Mum & Mick while billeted a little behind the firing line answered Micks and this is the first opportunity I have had of writing since Expect you will get accounts of the big push on this front in Australia everybody is very elated & the London papers very cheerful but I think we have all a lot to put up with also a lot of hard fighting before settling with the Huns. However I trust this awful business will be over shortly. I have not seen Nana yet but think his battalion will be going into the trenches any time now. but expect you hear from him. Well I could ramble on for a long time telling you of all sorts of experiences pleasant and otherwise but can do nothing else but sleep here having had none for 4 nights previous to coming here. in fact I cannot settle down to work and during lectures yo go to sleep. so that you see this war business is no joke Fighting on the Peninsular as far as my experience goes was a baby to this and all the old hands are of a similar experience Shall write again soon trust all are well and send lots of love to all from Bob. R J Henderson