Author: Robert James Henderson.

Location: France,
 Date: 13.6.1917,

My dear Mum, Just a line while lying here in a clearing causalty station to let you know that the old Hun has given me another crack am happy to say it is very slight this time and unless the thing goes septic again should be quite all right in about ten days time. Am hit in the right thigh again a little above the previous one this time by a High Explosive shell it is just a tiny fragment and should not have left the line if the Doc could he get it out he probed for about an 1" in but could not locate it the piece seems to be buried in some muscle some where and probably a bit of dirty underpants to boot. Am leaving in about an hours time by hospital train for Boulogne Expect they will make a
a small incision in the leg and get the piece of shell out there if so it should heal up in a couple of days. Do not want to go to England again so soon so if they want to send me shall do my best to get fixed up at Boulogne and stay in France besides I want to get. back to the Battn again have only been back with them about a month. We have been in the push at Messine's which no doubt you will have read all about by the time you get this note it was quite a successful show but of course we suffered heavily as per usual. I lost 2 officers  in from A Coy then I got hit leaving only one with the Coy up to last night. Lt McIntyre, Player, Fitzpatrick hit and no doubt some more of us will get it We were to have done a little stunt from the front line last night was on ny my way from there to BHQ to see the Colonel re the show when I was caught Heard the shell coming and took
a flying dive into a shell hole but it was too quick for me had several other narrow escapes before I got there it was a most exciting passage with the leg getting sore and stiff wanted the Colonel to let me stay for the show but the Doc would not hear of it he was frightened of the thing going septic. so I had to go off. Have not had a wash or a shower for a week have a beautiful beard and feeling very grubby hope to get a nice hot bath at Boulogne a 12 hour journey from here and a nice clean bed suppose I shall have to spend the usual £20 or so on clothes etc goodness know when I shall get my valise have only the dirty muddy clothes which I wear with me. However one must not growl better to be born lucky than rich I certainly have been most fortunate so far cannot make out 
why I have not been killed 60 times over if it were possible but as Dad says "Whom the Gods love die young" however expect there will be lots of time yet to get it properly yet the war looks as if it might go for another five years yet although Fritz is getting the wind up properly I reckon if the artillery would only cut out we would walk through him quick and lively. There are a whole lot of Germans buried in a old cellar at Messines we heard them tapping and started to dig for them until they started shelling like the devil we then dropped a message over their line by aeroplane telling him we were trying to release his men at Messines if he did not shell it however he must have thought we were pulling his foot for he continued to shell so that those poor beggars will just have to die of starvation etc
a horrible lingering death still it is there own fault having been caught for once in one of their deep cellar stunts of course the country is changed the shelling being tremendous. 14th June Prevailed upon the Doc at the last clearing station not to send me to the base so am here at an officers rest house at La Motte about 3 miles out from Hazebrouck It is a most beautiful place.  a large house acres of gorgeous grounds around it a young river running through them tennis courts, swimming, boating, billiards, excellent food and everything most comfortable. it is certainly one of the most beautiful places I have ever been in or seen. Some Baroness owns the place and has given it for an officers rest home The Doc here has seen my leg and says he does not think there is anything 
in it but is making arrangements  to have it X rayed then if necessary  shall have the piece removed but  it is feeling pretty good this  morning and if it goes on at  this rate shall be quite all  right again in about ten days. There are about 24 officers here  N.Z. Aust & English fellows who just want a weeks spell or so  to set them right the place is  run by N. Zealanders who are  a great lot of chaps. Nearly forgot  to mention I received a parcel  the other day containing tobacco socks scarf from Mrs Whitney etc  for which many thanks shall  write and thank Mrs W first  opportunity Am not cabling you  this time about being wounded  it is so slight  if you hear from  the military which I doubt dont  be scared it is just a scratch  this time. Shall write again soon lots of love to all, Bob.