V & A Ward No.4 London. Gen. Hospital Denmark Hill London.
Author: Robert James Henderson Date: 6.10.1916.  My dear Mum. Things are ever so much brighter now. Yesterday was my first day out and you can imagine how I enjoyed it after being here over a month. The leg is not right yet but I have a stick and hop around. all right although the muscles etc ask  give me some pain the incisions are healing nicely now and after some massage should be quite all right again in about another 10 days My first day out Wednesday. caught a Taxi from here went down to the bank & fixed up some money matters then down to our H.Q. to fix up about some more money then to the Regent Palace Hotel where I had lunch and it was some lunch too after hospital fare which gets very tiring after a while After a very satisfactory lunch. in a fine large. 
dining room a go with plenty of people to say nothing of the fine looking girls & good music. I went to the Adelphi theatre and had a look at High Jinks it compared very favourably with the same show played in Sydney some years ago. and as they say over here it was "Top Hole" I do not think the chorus girls are as good here but the principals are simply great. Theatres here are very expensive 10/6 for front stalls plus 1/- war tax in fact everything is terribly dear cannot see how one can manage on less than ₤2 per day and that will  mean going steady in lots of ways. Still who cares what little I have seen of London it is most fascinating tell Mick the girls ah enough said and every one of  them hot stuff they smoke, drink, give you the glad eye etc. etc. say Mum do not pass this letter around too much else people will be shocked. with me. First day out I came home after the theatre for dinner & went to bed right after feeling very tired. Yesterday I had a great time out. Had a look around with a Canadian officer from this ward. We both obtained permission from the doctor to stay out late so had a chance of seeing London by night We went into town after lunch did some shopping played a couple of games of billiards then went to a flash joint for tea lost my heart 30 times in 30 minutes listened to fine music smoked cigarettes with the girls this place will always do me. After tea I meet a couple of Australians who took us to their hotel and wanted us to go out for the evening but I was wise and cried off being a sick man After leaving these chaps Canada and self motored around the City went to the Lyric booked a couple of seats for the show that night entitled "Romance" it was very fine too although hot stuff the acting was excellent. After procuring the seats we went to dinner which was some dinner too more fascinating girls much wine and generally a lively time you can just imagine how I enjoyed myself this my first night free for many a long day in civilization. But you will be getting bored with all this suffice it to say we taxied back about midnight  & strange to say quite sober. The little night nurse meet us at the door made us take our boots off before entering the ward then brought to ones bedsides hot milk and biscuits fancy going back to France after all this it will be absurd. but after about a month of this gay time expect I shall be glad to get back besides money I fear me by that time will be nil. Cabled to Father yesterday saying "Convalescent in London send forty pounds to Commonwealth Bank London for Leonard." this is in accordance with his instructions to me except he said Bank N.S.W. but I shall notify him of the alteration hope Father sends it across in his name for of course it is not likely I shall be here when he is if he ever has the good luck. There cables cost money this one 22/ - deferred rates in fact I am simply frightened to count up how much money I spent yesterday some tremendous amount but of course you know about my first effort in London shall steady up shortly not with standing I have an appointment to-day for at afternoon tea & dinner to-night It is not a bit of use promising to be good in London the best anyone should expect is if one promises to be careful this is what I told the Sister this morning while dressing my leg. Of course only joking she is a good sport. and I am in her good books which is distinctly an assset asset while in hospital anyhow. I am deeply interested in trying to find my way about in this huge city of course I  one gets lost almost every five minutes it is simply absurd when lost I simply hail a taxi and get back to some central place I know have not been game to tackle the underground tubes yet but shall shortly with varied experiences no doubt. Well my  dear if I write anymore shall not be  able to get it in an envelope so shall fini for the present lots of love to all from, Bob.