WITH H.M. Mediterranean Expeditionary Force The Australian Branch, British Red Cross Society AND The Young Men's Christian Association. Cairo 17th October 1915 Sunday. Dear Mum & Family. The company are off to the front tomorrow morning without fail this time sailing orders are through I am not going with them but hope to pick them up later. I shall be here for at least 3 more weeks having decided to go through the machine gun school which starts tomorrow the work should be interesting and something new there were about 30 applicants from  our company and only 3 selected so that I feel quite hot stuff. Leslie Henley left this morning saw him off and wished him all sorts of luck. You had better address letters the same as usual although after going through
this school I may or may not join my company in fact do not know where, when, or with I whom I shall get into action with However if I receive any letters shall forward them on to Hana & he will do the same if during the next month at all events. Have not heard from home for 2 weeks but still letters may have been sent on as we were supposed to have gone away some time ago. Having afternoon tea at Groppies one of the hot stuff places in Cairo yesterday afternoon I met Major Herring who has charge of the 13th Battalion he came across and spoke to me said he was the only officer who went in with the original battalion who was left and out of 1500 men 270 only remained I advised him to take a ticket in Tatts. also felt a bit sorry. 
about not going away with the company especially after meeting the man in charge. However was advised to have a go at this machine gun section so will have to buck in a do some work. We are very comfortable 12 in a large tent with a separate mess for N.C.O.s which is very good. Have not seen the programe yet. but there are at least two lectures a day. and extra /work for N.C.Os. Had a fine trip last Friday night went out to the Hospital which is situated on the banks of the Nile river to see some of the nurses who came over with us on the boat. Two of us took Sister Garvin and Sister Herritage out on the river we took our tea and had a great time it was indeed a treat to talk with and be in the company of an Australian girl again quite like old times in Australia the girls were very lively like all nurses are and with plenty of nice vegs good things to eat and drink to say nothing of the sporting girls you can imagine we had a tip top evening arriving back to camp at 11.30 p.m. Never tell me South Australian girls are quiet & sedate again Sister Herritage comes from Adelaide and she happened to be my mate that evening we were not very quiet in fact I received many shocks however if I know any thing it will not be my last trip up the Nile in a sailing punt on a beat beautiful moonlight night. The weather here seems to be always alike to me days the same very hot and nights the same cool & beautiful it never seems to rain in this country by any chance. 
Last night we went to one of the flash music halls shall enclose the programe had a quiet night something similar to the Sydney Tivoli only much better the two Australian artists were very  good and received a great reception. You can smoke all through the performance and get anything to drink without moving from your seat. in fact after Sydney theatres the arrangements at excellent Living at my present rate money seems to be getting low 2/- per day being hardly enough to buy ones ice-creams to say nothing about cabs, boats, & taking ladies out shall probably cable father through the Anglo Egyptian hac bank for £20 or so shortly tell Mick to  square the matter up if such a thing happens. Had a long letter 

17 october 1915
 from Lucy Cowdery which was very nice of her. also two letters from Gladys Reid do not know  what I have done to deserve all this. Hana & self are keeping in excellent health in fact I have never felt better in my life plenty of hard work and not too much to eat I suppose we only get meat once a day stewed fruit and rice or tinned fish for other meals & when an ordinary tin of salmon or fruit has to do 5 hungry men things are only middling if one has no money. however I am not grumbling it suits me all right then when you gets up into the city everything is thoroughly appreciated. Shall write again next mail & let you know how the school is going on am at present very jealous seeing all my mates & friends whom I have been with for the last 3 months going away to fight and not being with them However hope to be there shortly after them if I do not pick them up again at Lemnos Island. Hoping every thing is xxxxx xxxxx you are all well at home Kindest remembrances to all and lots of love to you all.  Boby. 