No. 4 London Gen Hospital Denmark Hill.

Author: Robert James Henderson Date: 4.2.1917.
 My dear Jane, Received a letter from you yesterday dated 10th Dec also two from Lorna about the same date she is a dear to write especially as I write to her once in a blue moon however presume she se reads all the letters that go home so that will be just as good as writing to her direct. Am still in hospital but outside. the leg being a bit weak am quite all right have first had a yarn to the Doctor had a little skin trouble around the wound which is quite all right now the Doctor said he would have a look at it next week and if right said I could get away this month some time want to get away about the middle the Sister wants me to stay  until the end of it shall not stay any longer than the end of the month that will be about 6 months in hospital feel I shall be glad to get back and do a bit. The Sister wants me to go and have a skate  says there is a big push coming off shortly and if I skate am sure to bust the leg  up again and therefore stay in hospital  she  would tempt the devil said I was ^not afraid  of any push the excitement would suit me  Have been quite a social success lately last  Thursday afternoon at Lady Doiguy's had some  bridge & music and quite a nice time on  Friday afternoon a dance at Mrs. Dr Chappel's  residence had a great lot of girls there they all taught me to fox trot all the  rage here am quite hot stuff at it now  it was a great show I enjoyed it immensely  met little Carline Rodd now Mrs Pop Lloyd  also Mrs. Vaughan wife of the late manager  of the city bank Newcastle yesterday afternoon  was at another dance at Lady somebody's  forgotten the name and had a real good  time a great big mansion lovely ball room  good music floor etc etc to-day am lunching  with Mrs Hill S. Kensington tomorrow another  afternoon stunt Wednesday afternoon a special  invitation from the King for the opening of  the House of Lords supper afterwards at the Hon. Mrs Edward then again on Thursday afternoon  at Lady Doiguy's so you see kid I  am going some get a bit fed up of it  all sometimes and go nowhere for about a  week then get a move on again its a  great life this tearing around with nothing  to do Had a bit of fun here the other  day we all dressed up and marched  around the hospital to bagpipe music supplied  by one of the Scotch officers went into  the Tommie's wards they enjoyed the joke  immensely one of the Scotch chaps put on  a kilt field boots spurs in front instead  of the back a red blouse Australian hat  he did look a chip I dressed in one  of the nurses dresses roars of laughter  talk about a fancy dress ball it was  not in it. Glad to hear all are well  at home & trust we may be among you all again in the near future lots of  love to all from brother Bobbie.