Regiment: 13TH BATTALION, A.I.F. 
Author: Robert James Henderson

Location: FRANCE.
 Date: 4th March 1918,
 My dear Mum, We are once again out of line for a little while how long I dont know however we are making the most of it and making ourselves as comfortable as possible under the circumstances Had some great excitement in the line this time Fritz came across & raided us and He believe me he got some hurry up unfortunately Lt. Luscombe wask killed Capt Browning 
severely wounded about 8 other ranks killed & 15 wounded still of course these things will happen and have to be put up with Poor old Humphrey got it through the stomach and was very critical however news of him to-day says he has a good fighting chance however expect it is finish war for him this time Luscombe was an awfully nice fellow newly married & a kiddie born while he was over here it is very sad. Am enclosing list of our code names in the line last time they are quite funny. if you lived with us all slinging off at one another. for instance one officer is called Brilliant well
he is an absolute dope no good in the line or out of it either. Funniest thing in the world ringing up the sigs of course are tickled to death ZIG asks for to Dag. is SOCKs coming up etc all sorts of funny phrases. occur. Have just had a lovely bath and change of clothes so am feeling quite lively and clean first bath & change for over 10 days. Went out for a ride yesterday afternoon with Dos Wallack had quite a good day plenty of champagne and a good dinner intermingled with some fun with the French lasses. Looks as if Winter is starting here again rain snow & mud it is as cold as the devil however am sitting in front of a roaring fire at present 
a bottle of whisky on the table so that everything is Jakes. Am looking forward to leave again expect to get away about the end of this month if lucky expect I shall go to London again one of our officers left for Rome to-day via Paris Monte Carlo etc it should be a most interesting trip may have the luck to take this trip one of these days. 5 of us are thinking of having a little supper to-night having in stock 2 doz eggs 1 doz beer 1 bottle of whisky 1 loaf of bread butter cheese & cocoa 10 Pork Chops how do you think that will go.
Received letters from Lorna dated  24th Dec & 6th Jan. also one from  Jane 30th Dec. and very nice they  all were. Glad you received the Blotter  ok there are some wonderful things  in that shop of Liberty's Jane would  simply dote on the place but of  course you want a terrible lot  of money the things one likes are  impossible prices. Fancy young  Janey writing me that note  cannot imagine the dear kid  growing up. Shall write a Post  card to her. one is apt to  forget time it simply flies 
have been away nearly 3 years now  I wonder how much longer. Glad  you dote on Hope she is a nice  kid afraid she is madly in love  with me but there is nothing  doing am not likely to marry  anyone on this side of the  world tell Mick I shall  reserve her for him. She  writes regularly sends me all  the English papers etc so is  very good shall take her for  a good fly around when  across on leave yet things are  very tame in Liverpool after  London. Fancy old "Ponko" being 
down a married man with a  family now I must be getting old. afraid I shall very soon be on the shelf the trouble is to keep on the shelf over here one could get married every day in the week and twice on Sunday's but afraid I am getting too old in the nut to be caught still it is all very interesting and very funny at times. We hope to bring off our competitions in football boxing musketry etc this time out so that everyone is very busy of course all this is b intermingled with much training reorganization etc yet we find time to have many games of good bridge in the evening had some good games while in the line this time at B.H.Q. who were some 300yds behind the front line it is dead funny when you come to think of it shells bursting etc do not disturb one in the least afraid if one gets home after this show it will appear as a huge dream. Trust this year will see it out although to my mind there is no indication to date. lots of love to all Nana is all right away at another school he seems to live at them, Bob.