No4 London General. Hos. Denmark Hill London.
Author: Robert James Henderson. Date: 24.10.1916.  My dear Mum. Sorry to report my leg is rotten the confounded thing has come to a stage where it seems to stick and will not heal The surgeon had a look at it yesterday and decided not to operate again for the present seems to have them thinking a bit in the meantime I am stiff & sore legged with the  thing no better than it was a fortnight ago fortunately I can hop around with the aid of a stick but it is rather painful and am commencing to get fed up of the whole show. I go out nearly every day and of course am having the time of my life but it is not too nice with steps etc large crowds and a bad leg. however expects thing's might be worse still on the other hand they could be better The sister in  charge here is very keen to have me out.
about again and if not says I shall be a long time before well again. expect if I am not careful shall end up with a stiff leg or something silly like that it is indeed astounding what trouble a little bullet wound can give. Wonder if Father got my cable which I sent about a fortnight ago. enquired at the Commonwealth Bank if the £40 was there for Nana but it had not come but of course it may be there now. Have not heard from him for some time so expect he is still in France and I hope all right. He will certainly want some money if he comes across here it is not the slightest good being in London without money. I have been going very lightly in a way living at hospital and have spent £50 having only been out about a fortnight but I have a fair amount of money here and should be all right if not kept here indefinitely. Have been to the theatre a lot grand opera has started Am going to Faust next Saturday night Some of the same people as played in Sydney. Miss Buckman in Butterfly Edna Thornton in Samson & Delilah and others I have heard before. Went to Peg of my Heart yesterday afternoon it was simply great the little Irish girl was wonderful Last Sunday afternoon went to the Albert hall to a concert it was  simply splendid an exact simili Mum to the Ameteur Orchestral concerts in Sydney a splendid Orchestra which played all high class stuff then a duet from Carmen was  sung. Also the Jewel Song from Faust in conjunction with the music. Have you ever been in this hall it is simply a wonderful building, beautiful inside, the  whole place a huge dome and would not like to say how many people it held. Shut my eyes on several occasions during the concert and thought I was sitting next to you at the town hall Sydney as of yore. Have not done much sight seeing in London to date have seen St. Pauls and the 300 but these things require a lot of walking about Thought St. Pauls very wonderful but some of the cathedrals in France are also very fine they have a beauty at Amiens for instance. Decided to go to Westminster Abbey to church after the concert last Sunday but alas the attractions of the city proved too great You may think this statement strange but it is just my opinion I have been in Cairo & Alexandria in Egypt, such places as Marseilles Amiens, Rouen, in France & London & consider the last named the worst morally this place is simply the limit. One could have a wonderful time in London I should say. Have not been about very much here yet but have learnt many things & seen many things which is indeed an education in itself. You should see some of us flying about in the Tubes getting lost etc it is great fun changed 4 times the other day getting from Bond St tube to Piccadilly Circus which would have been absurd if to anyone knowing the ropes but this sort of things affords all sorts of amusement if not pushed for time. Went through one of the large stores in Of Oxford St the other day Selfridges it is a tremendous place the only place in London you can get Welcome Nugget tobacco which cost 18/- per lb Same stuff 6/6 in Sydney my experience so far teaches me Australia is the cheapest place to live nearly everything seems cheaper there to me. Well Mum Shall write again soon trust all are well and everything in  the garden lovely lots of love, Bob 