Gallipoli 12.12. 1915.
Dear Mum & family Have at last reached my destination and am agreeably suprised with it and the conditions existing  So far the weather has been glorious & the food good. I was very glad to see Nana again he is looking excellent and getting as fat as a pig also Leslie is OK and looking well. And the rest of the boys in our company are all fit & doing well some have gone away sick & so fourth but not so many as one might have expected Nana had some letters here for me which I enjoyed having as you can imagine having had no news whatever since September. I am attached to the Machine Gun section of the 13th Batt & find the work very interesting the gun positions & the position country controlled by them & support given to our chaps in the trenches etc makes one think of the very excellent work these machine guns do in fact it would be impossible to do without them. Nana & self of course have different duties but my dug out he is very close to his & we see quite a lot of one another. Of course one loses the temporary rank held when you arrive here but do not mind in the least in fact it is quite nice to be a private again I must write to the office and get them to make my money up tell Mick I shall instruct them to pay any money due to me into my current account at bank N.S.W. Annandale. Was very glad to get away from Lemnos Island was only on shore 2 days and after being on guard 26 hours received 10 minutes notice to pack up and be ready to leave in half an hour which did not leave me very much time we had to march about 3 miles to the boat loaded with 48 hrs rations 120 rounds of ammunition rifle & other gear then when we landed on the peninsular had to climb hills for about 3½ miles from the beach to a point called Durrats Post where the 4th brigade are at present situated with all our gear so that when we arrived there at 3 o'clock in the morning everyone was quite glad to da drop their blankets anywhere on the hill & turn in The noise of bullets & shep shrapnel notwithstanding the closeness of same to ones person had not the slightest effect on ones sleep The bullets whiz all over the place here but one does not worry or take any notice of same everybody doing their bit in a most cheerful manner Have had a couple of games of bridge here already played for 1/- 100 & won 8/- the second night I was here then last night I long taught the school how to play Auction bridge & again was lucky enough to win 10/- we played until 120 midnight I then went on duty until 3 o'clock in the morning & when that time arrived was feeling fit for a good sleep which I had. The boys enjoyed the auction bridge & reckon they will not play the ordinary game again Have not received any parcels or papers here yet but the things you have sent may yet come & will be greatly appreciated a ship containing 2000 bags of mails for here was sunk recently so that loses of that nature if they occur too often could account for many things going astray however it is all in the game When sending another parcel over I should be glad to have some paper, envelops, a pack of cards & bridge scorer also some chocolate but by time this letter  reaches you we might be anywhere however you never know your luck & if Johnny Turks bullets go close only & one remains in the present state of good health I shall still being going strong. Nana tells me Reg Bull is over here away around on our right if I can manage it one of these days we are going to  take a walk over see him Leslie saw him & says he is going strong lost some weight but otherwise OK. Well dear I shall try and write regularly & let you know the news trust you are all OK we are always talking & thinking of you all lots of love to everybody. Bob 