No. 4 London Gen Hos. Denmark Hill.

Author: Robert James Henderson Date: 27.1.1917.

Dear Mick, Just received two letters from you dated 4th Nov & 2nd Dec.  both addressed to London direct. Dont be silly about winning that  fiver this chicken will never go off here having too good a time single for that have met girls with tons of money to but am still fancy free As for Hope the dear little thing I have never yet seen her and probably never shall you know. I think everything would be spoilt if we ever met. Had a letter a couple of days ago wanting me to go up to Liverpool but do not think I shall cannot possibly tear myself away from London even for a girl besides it is a long way away and I believe not much of a place From all accounts you are the one that should be careful and mind I shall exact that fiver take my advice and have a good time with them all it's a fine life especially in London of course they are very plentiful over here & if one does not suit you you give her the sack and get another with consummate ease  Oh th some of my experiences here would tickle you to death And believe me I have learnt many things would not have missed my kick around this town for anything. Say Mick when you write again you might send some sort of a financial statement would like to know how I stand if much longer in this town shall be broke have had £160 from bank N.S.W. so far it is marvellous how money goes here I presume the Government are paying in all right extra allotment etc etc Still it does not matter so long as one is learning things seeing things etc. Have been trying to get out of hospital for a week now but the Doctor & Sister will not let me go say if I had any heavy work it would probably break down again say the rest here working the muscles etc will do it good that sounds all right but am having too good a time and spending too much money getting into bad habits it cano cannot be done lad and of course it no good being here without lots of money to spend however expect I shall get away eventually but shall probably be here until the middle of February but shall do my best to get away before that however shall be back in France for the next big push and really do not mind if I do get no leave at all after leaving hospital I have had a wonderful time. Played auction bridge a couple of days ago from 10 am till 4.30 PM without a break for 1/- per 100 won 59/- that was rather a good effort dont you think we play here quite a lot Was out at Lady somebody's place the other afternoon forgotten the name had a couple of rubbers with some ladies at 3d per 100 lost 1/6 had quite an interesting game have been swanking quite a lot amongst these people but of course you know one is so used to this sort of life that there is nothing to it the sort of thing I go in for more is to get to Piccadilly Circus mix in among people all sorts and all  descriptions talk to girls you do not know in fact the gay life having never led this life before the experience gained has been grand. believe me one has some funny times (damn have just run out of paper) hope to tell you about some of them one of these days for little stories for men only. Had a great evening the other night met a bunch of fellows at the Carlyle Cub of which I am a member usual thing had a few drinks went to dinner at the Trocadero had a real bucks evening it was grand had lots of fun good food good music fine women etc etc  one Scotch officer three  English officers & myself d very seldom kick around with Australians like finding out about other people nearly always kick about with a Scotch or  Canadian officer.  Of course see plenty  of our chaps across here it is simply wonderful how one runs into people in this large city. Tell Mum I received her letter dated 3rd Dec also the enclosed note from Lucy give the dear kid a g kiss for me and tell her I shall come home and to see her just as soon as possible. Will write to Mum as soon as some more news collects Have finished with the dentist told him I was thinking of taking a flat he said something about the seven stages of man a flat in London being the last  stage w I dont like his ways do you Have just been having a serious talk to the doctor about getting out think he will let me get out without giving me my discharge for a couple  of weeks and Browning likewise so that will rather  suit me live out in a flat and just come and see him occasionally he is a terrible good sport one misses such a lot having to get back to hospital each night Denmark Hill is quite long run out trains etc stop running about 12.30 AM taxis also very hard to get to this  place. So Dad has decided to to retire at last he certainly  deserves a good rest and trust he is quite all right. Have had quite a lot of snow here the weather on the whole is not too bad getting rather cold, but it does not worry me much, if one lets the weather here interfere with them it could be the end of the section. Well old kid Cheer oh for the present lots of luck in exams etc etc love to all from brother,  Bobbie