Egypt 28.4.1916 My dear Mum Received your letter dated 26th March just now and notwithstanding we were all up at 4 o'clock this morning with the whole divisional training on the desert will answer same with a few lines there is absolutely no news here and one is always kept busy when not drilling I have all the letters of the platoon to censor and as some of the chaps write at length and frequently and as I always make a point of getting them through as soon as possible you can see that my own time for writing letters is indeed limited. This being so if some of the good people I owe letters to remark that they have not heard from me will you kindly explain the reason for me. Kell (Ralf.) and myself share the same tent he is a great little chap and I get on tip top with him he lives at Hunters Hill the Commonwealth bank people Father is sure to know his father and you Mum must have met Mrs Kell interested in the comforts fund. 13th Batt. He knows lots of people that I know and we have great old talks etc. For the last 3 weeks I have been living with Capt Barton (Toby) but the second in command of the company having returned he & Toby must be together in the one tent which meant that I moved in with Kell. We are getting our tent fixed up a treat with pretty colors etc but is is not worth while troubling much as we expect to leave in about a months time. The 45th Batt is at present camped at Rail Head about 4 miles from here about 10 officers of the 13th rode horses out there for dinner a couple of nights ago. We had a very  wild and good evening I enjoyed the gallop out immensely it was great to be on a good horse again although of course everybody having more than was good for them to drink the pace was much slower coming back. We arrived back about midnight after a great evening. I got hold of Nana and had a long yarn changed changed correspondence etc he looks very well and fat and everything is right generally. Anzac day was a great success here the only thing spoiling same was the heat it was some hot. We had early morning church re fallen heroes on Gallipoli a swimming carnival in the afternoon shall enclose programe for your perusal Sorry to hear old Peter is not too good hope he will soon pick up again although he must be getting on the old side now. One of the Kirkwood lads Jack is a 2/Lieut in the 45th Batt I often run across him he is a great big chap. and getting along very well. I have a lot of letters to answer but may not be able to do so tell Mrs. Dennis I enjoyed her long and interesting letter immensely but may not be able to answer it for some time also tell her that although in the army for some considerable time now my regd religious views & morals have not yet been wholly corrupted. Remember me very kindly to all the Drummoyne folk. lots of love for all Bob