No 4 London Gen. Hos. Denmark Hill, London.

Author: Robert James Henderson. Date: 11.12.1916.
 My dear Aunt Pol. Thanks so  much for your letter dated  14th Oct which I received  here yesterday in a bundle  of 20 letters from Australia  you can well imagine my  excitement at hearing all  the news.  Of course I write  home regularly and you will  get all the news from there 
still the pleasure is all mine  so shall write you a few  lines all to your dear  self.  When I cabled home  slightly wounded. it did  appear to be slight but the  wound went septic and  it is now nearly 3½  months and I am still  in hospital. However the leg  is going on fine now  and has practically healed  up. Expect to have some  massage for about 3 more  weeks then shall be all  right again Of course after 
that if the military are decent I shall get some leave but being away so long from the front do not expect to get more than a fortnight. However I do not grumble as I am practically on leave here treating the hospital now as a hotel here for break fast and sleeping only. They are very good and being in the good books of the nurses and doctor can do anything I like and believe me I do many things which 
are contrary to orders & regulations here. Am having absolutely the time of my life in this gay and fascinating city and without a doubt London is the place to b have a good time and  spend a lot of  money. The fair sex are some class and plenty of them about in fact they all seem to be dippy on  any thing in uniform. The way the girls here drink their whisky & soda with you also smoke your cigarettes in public was indeed strange to me at the 
start but of course have been kicking around London for some time now. Had a quiet week end at Brighton lately which is about an hours journey from here. it was a great change getting away from hospital for a few days. Am going up to Liverpool to spend Xmas week end with Mrs Davies who kindly gave me a very pressing invitation the Sister in the ward being very good saying I could get away from hospital from 
Saturday morning until the following Friday these people know what chaps go through as and are always keen on one having a good time. when they get a chance. People here are simply splendid especially to colonials have invitations to "At Homes" 3 this week theatres and all the rest of it but you will have heard of these things from my letters home. Shall be glad when this damed war ends just about sick of the whole show and trust that Xmas 1917 will 
see those of us who are left back again to in Australia Personally I think the war news is simply rotten and in my opinion the Germans will take a lot of beating yet. Glad to hear of all  the Government changes here lately there has been quite a lot of excitement and much is expected from Lloyd George and his war cabinet think he is a jolly good man and will stir things up properly. Give my love to Uncle the kids and Miss Baker not forgetting yourself. Bob.

Have had  no word from Nana or heard anything about him - presume he is still in France and OK. does he write Home - ?
 