No. 4 London Gen Hos. Denmark Hill.

Author: Robert James Henderson. Date: 22.12.1916.

My dear Mum, As you see by the above address I am still in hospital the leg has healed up nicely now the only trouble now is with the muscles which catch occasionally and of course the leg is very soft and gets tired quickly.  Have started massage now having a charming lass to rub ones leg smack it & all the rest of it also have to bend it forwards backwards etc the treatment is most interesting but strenuous in fact it feels worse since massage begun however expect it is the muscles getting shaken up expect to have this treatment for about a month when I should be quite fit again.  Should be clear of hospital about the end of January then allowing for a little leave expect to be back in France some time in February.  however shall cable when leaving England shall also cable to-day to let you know I am still in London well and having the time of my life  Am going out with another officer to buy Xmas presents for the Sister and nurses of our ward we have £10 to spend and hope to get quite nice things tonight am meeting Marks & Mills two of our officers who are across on leave and expect a wild evening will will ensue.  So glad to have met these chaps getting all the news of the battalion & doings in France since I left.  Also met Capt Young of the 45th Battn who told me Mark was quite all right doing good work and said they were fixing him up for a commission also said he might be across here any day on leave.  Am going to a dance next Saturday at Lady Newtons lunching next Wednesday at with Countess Gleichen going to spend 7 next Sunday afternoon with the Hon Mrs Edwardes also Xmas afternoon then Xmas evening with the Sly's  Have also had all sorts of grand invitations for Xmas dinner Xmas eve etc but have refused a lot of them one must have some time to ones self and have a knock around with the boys.  Too much grandness you know becomes boring.  Think I shall spend have Xmas dinner in the hospital it will be very jolly and think I shall enjoy it more here than anywhere else  Was going to Liverpool for Xmas but had a letter from Mrs Davies who has her husband seriously ill in the house so that is all off.  Am rather glad as a  matter of fact expect to have a ripping time in London.  Had a great afternoon in the ward yesterday afternoon a Christmas tree provided by some ladies with all sorts of nice presents for us all bottles of champagne, whiskey, cigarettes, safety razors etc etc then we had music a bit of a dance nice  afternoon tea and ended up by getting a lift into town by the charming girls in their huge Daimler motor car car  After leaving them another officer & self had dinner at the Regent Palace Hotel and while sitting in the lounge afterwards met a most charming man and his wife who were both most interesting that much so that it was 11-30 PM before we knew where we were  We then had to get back to the hospital without doing what we intended to do at all.  This often happens in London go out to do something special and never do it at all one meets so many people etc and after all it is great just doing what you please.  Had a good afternoon last Tuesday at Countess Brasseys usual thing afternoon tea then music and a bit of a hop with some of the nice girls who are always at these shows.  Believe Ken Pattrick has just arrived back in Sydney saw him the day before he sailed from here you might ask him home for dinner will be able to give you lots of interesting news that one cannot write in letters.  Well my dear shall write again soon am feeling quite fit again and having the time of my life would not have missed this trip for something the experience I have gained in all manner of things has been great certainly expensive if lucky enough to get back shall be broke but who minds one can always start all over again.  Best love to everyone.  Bob. 