At Sea 14th November, 1915
My dear Mum At present on board the Argyllshire going to I do not know where Lemnos Island I suppose the sea is beautifully smooth and everything very peaceful. Had a good trip down in the  train from Cairo to Alexandria about a 5 hrs run. passing through miles & miles of country covered with corn & cotton. We embarked last night  and got away early this morning. I hope to pick up Nana shortly but do not know whether he has left Lemnos Island for the front yet or not. am anxious to see if he has any mail for me. Thank father for sending the money along so promptly had no difficulty in getting it and as I have had the last week free to do as I pleased it came in very handy. I have been attached to what they call details that is men from the hospitals wounded etc who are  ready to go back to the front. these men of course do not drill or do any work so that the past week has been a great loaf for me however I shall be in amongst the real thing very shortly now. It is great to be at sea again so cool and nice after Egypt it is as hot as the devil there in the day time and always sand sand to gaze upon. Came away in a terrible hurry had dinner in Cairo on Friday night and made arrangements to go to the theatre on Saturday night and a trip out all day on Sunday with one of the Sisters but alas it was not to be when arriving back in camp at 10.30 pm on Friday night we got notice to be ready to leave on Saturday morning at 6. o'clock took me until 1.30 am to pack and get ready but wished to do a great many other things if time had of allowed. Left my black bag with spare clothing with a chap to take into Cooks so that if I ever get back again to Egypt, I shall have some clothes to wear of course you cannot take much with you into the trenches & what little you take in never comes back out with you and naturally if your things you leave behind are left with the military that is the end of them. Have no more news at present Hoping you have an excellent Xmas & New Year at Wakefield & lots of Joy shall be thinking of you all
lots of love Bob.