Gallipoli 12.12.1915 Mr. Donoghue Dear Lu, Have at last after going through varied experiences reached my destination for the time being and am now going bt strong against Mr.Johnny Turk. I find things very interesting & at times most exciting. Here we are at present camped holding Durrats Post which is situated about 3½ miles from the beach. and although bullets & shrapnel whiz around close to one at times no one takes any notice but just goes on doing his bit We make ourselves very comfortable here while off duty ar  all living in dugouts which are let into the side of the hill & they can be made very comfortable & nice with your own little fire-place etc. In fact we have had several visits to one anothers dugouts where we play bridge & have small suppers etc not quite the same as an evening out in Australia but nevertheless most enjoyable and novel. I am at present attached to the Machine Gun section of the 13th Batt. & find the work most interesting & exciting. These guns are absolutely indispensable and the good work done here by them is astonishing. When joining my their units here all the
reinforcements N.C.O.s lose their rank and of course start over again as privates this was not made clear to one in Australia but when reaching this side of the world. one learns all sorts of things in connection with the military business that have never been heard of in Australia. I joined my unit here on the 7th of December 1915 & from that date my pay will be that received by a private namely 6/- per day. I remember aright the company are making up the difference to £3-6-0 per week this being so I shall have some money due to me & shall be obliged if same is paid into my current account with the bank of N.S.W. Annandale Sydney. If of course I have the good fortune to improve my position & become a Machine gun expert or a spare Colonel I shall have pleasure in letting you know of same however I hope to shall do my bit to the best of my ability in whatever capacity. I had a quite a good stay in Egypt before coming over here & some opportunities of getting around & seeing things the place is most fascinating & under interesting as well as instructive Cairo is a wonderful place in many respects but in my opinion a most immoral place in fact I have seen things which unless one actually did see them one would never believe such things went on. On the other hand the Pryamids Pyramids, Sphinx, Mosques  Museum the river Nile & such like trips were simply great. From Eghpt Egypt we went to Lemnos Island where we we were hung up for 3 weeks on the ship. Coming across from Alexandria we picked up 4 boat loads of survivors from a torpedoedal torpeoded vessel which was only 3 hours ahead of us so that things were a bit exciting for awhile this vessel also had 2000 bags of mail for the peninsular which was very bad luck for us all over here letters  are scarce enough without losing some in this manner. Kindly remember me to all my fellow employees & if Mr Turks bullets continue to go close only one may some day have the good fortune to see you all again Trusting the company will have a  prosperous year ahead and also wishing you the compliments of the season I have the honour to be. your obedient. Servant. R. J. Henderson 