Tel - el - Kebir 27.2.1916. My dear. Mum.  The 13th Battalion arrived here yesterday from Moascar the distance being about 25 miles of nearer to Cairo it is a very large  camp. there must be 40,000 or more Australians here. men who have been in action also later reinforcements which have been at  Zeitoun & other places. Here wer are all going to be reformed and adjusted and expect to put in about 4 weeks solid work then to imshi to France and have a go against the square heads. This camp is on the desert but think it will be a nice change providing one has plenty of money. There are shops in the camp of all descriptions dry & wet canteens, restaurants, picture shows etc. This place is also historically interesting there is a cemetery & trenches a little distance away  where the British & niggers had a go somewhere about 1880 we intend to take a walk and investigate this afternoon. Cecil Clifton looked me up yesterday afternoon he has been here some time now and is attached to the M.G. section 3rd Batt. He looks very well and fit but a bit tired of all this training. I heard from him his  brother Bob. also Jack Cowdery have returned to Australia. I had a day off last Thursday and went to Cairo arriving about 10.am. & leaving there at 7.15pm Had a great day. several good feeds went out to the hospital to see Molly Riley & some other sisters but they were either out or engaged so did not see any of them however may have another chance later. Bought some books. while in Cairo entitled  Doings of the Brave Australiasians in the present war also the  Kangaroos Marines have read the  former which was most interesting get it from the library I think you would all enjoy it. Went to the pictures here last night they were excellent the military band there was also great to listen to there must have been at least 2,000 soldiers present. Am at present in the  YMCA building it seems OK piano refreshments writing gear etc. it is no doubt a great institution & does a power of good besides offering comfort and enjoyment to the boys. Some are playing & singing others having cake and cocoa. others reading & writing the place is crowded to the doors. Had a letter from Lloyd at the works. he seems a bit upset. wanted to know whether I thought a young  married man should enlist or whether the thing could be carried on with men who had no encumberances. I  wrote back and said that if I were in his position as far as I knew I should not enlist there were over 100,000 troops taken from the  peninsular besides others who are all in Egypt & England also said I hoped to be back in Australia next Christmas barring accidents for I am of the  opinion the war will end  this year. also received Printers Pie magazine from Lorna and 2 papers from home, and letters from you Mum, Billy Bull. & Lorna. Nana also received letters and papers we always change one  another so get all the news. it is great to hear all the news. You may not receive letters  from us for some time after  the evacuation we were not allowed to write for 3 weeks also I doubt if you will receive our letters from the trenches just before coming off. However one is lucky to receive things fairly regularly I suppose.  Just heard  some rather gratifying news from  my officer who told me that  he & several other officers had  recommended me for a commission  which if approved may be through  any time I got a hell of stock shock. And was all together  taken back. think Les. Henley  must have put in some good  work for me. also Murray. Of  course I do not deserve it  but still I shall hook on  if same comes along of course  forming these new battallions  etc they will need more officers. Shall cable & let you know if anything comes of it also  shall require some more money  I suppose.  No more news at  present lots of love to all,  Bob.