Telephone:       
Regent 6060                                                
Telegrams:
CARLYLE CLUB.
The Carlyle Club 211, PICADILLY,
LONDON. W.

Author: Robert James Henderson Date: 29.1.1917.
 My dear Mum, Am just waiting for a chap to come in and have dinner so thought I would drop you a few lines no news whatever still you will have to put up with that wrote a long letter to Mick a couple of days ago. Do not know when the mails leave here for Australia now they are not advertised now for some reason or other shipping etc being in a precarious state. Am still in the hospital wanting to get out badly but the Doctor & Sister will not let me go say if I go to France at present and do any heavy work my leg will surely break down again. Of course I must take their advice in matters although I feel quite all right I suggested to the Doctor taking a flat without my discharge he gave me permission to do so but advised me not to he is a great sport and knows what a chap would be up to in this gay town Think I shall shall take his advice and stay in hospital for a couple of weeks longer one is not so liable to get into trouble he allows us lots of latitdule so long as one gets back quietly and before 3 am in the morning so that is all right it keeps  me moderately sober also keeps me sta from staying out  all night of course this can  be arranged by special arrangement  still staying in hospital keeps me within limits and bless you the  doctor knows it he is a great sport So is the Sister in charge of the ward I can practically do any thing I like these days which is quite nice and suits me down to the ground.  Have been out to afternoon tea this afternoon with Browning & 2 Canadians & 1 English Officer meeting a Scotch Officer for dinner to-night so you see am making a point of meeting and knocking around with different people nothing like picking up all one can on these stunts the opportunity may not occur again and if not believe me to date I have made the best of my opportunities although I have spent a lot of money Received some letters from you which I  mentioned in the letter to Mick but have not them here at present think you had better address future correspondence to the battalion direct now shall surely be back with them in the course of two months. Of course I could not  trade on this leg and say  weakness etc and in all  probability stay here for the  duration with not any difficulty  but not this chicken have  a terribly good name with  the Colonel & Battalion generally  so shall make a point of  getting back before the next  big offensive and do my  bit Played Auction bridge all the morning at 1/- per 100  held bad cards lost 9/- the  Sister is very keen about the game it was funny to hear her views on what she would do and what not. Browning was my partner he plays a real good game but luck was against us. Having fairly cold weather here now skating all over the place in London and around wanted to have a shot the sister would not let me said I might fall heavily on my weak leg. of course these people would really kid a man he was crook Well my dear shall dry up for the present lots of love to all from Bobbie. 