Author: Robert James Henderson

Location: France,
 Date: 30. 10. 1917.
 My dear Mum, Have at last arrived at one destination for the time being where we hope to remain for six weeks or so if lucky for Xmas. It is a quaint little village 150 inhabitants in peace time no shops no anything so that it is very quiet & peaceful. However we will liven it up a bit starting a Canteen YMCA tent rifle range sports etc etc so that when we get fixed up it should be comfortable enough here and  a good rest obtained. Am still feeling rotten have no voice yet and generally doppy from the effects of gas in the recent operations. We are having per hard frosts every morning now and plenty of wet weather which is pretty miserable still I have a large fire in my room
and make things as comfortable as possible under the circumstances. Have being going to jump on my horse and look  Nana up for the past couple of days but the weather has been so cold and  wet I have not had a chance. do not know where the 45th are but they should be any where within a 10 mile radius of here. We shall be very busy here training starting all sorts of competitions football, shooting Bdge. sports etc of all descriptions hope to hand off some more cups. Colonel Durrant arrived back yesterday he has been away since second time in at Messines where he was wounded it is very nice seeing him back. Dug Marks has been running the battalion for some time and an excellent CO he  has been he is off to the South of France now for a spell expect he will come back as second in command. Am sending 
these photographs along to you one of M Harry Murray one of Sam Davis our worthy Adjutant a very fine chap and the one I had taken with Hope Davies at Liverpool hope they reach you all right I value the one of Major Murray muchly it is an excellent photo should be glad if you get it framed his autograph and photo are worth having men with his decorations & fighting experience are rare although there are many at the game these days. Can't say that   I know any officers by the name  of McMaster yet the name is quite  familiar to me of course I know  Linden Brown well these days he  lives with The Hon Mrs Edwardes in London in connection with the Red Cross and gives all wounded officers or those on leave of the AIF an excellent
time. He is a great sport many a wild  night I have had with him in London  Mum you are funny talking about being  venturesome why the whole game is that  one cannot help it if you want to get  your work done For instance while holding   the front line last time in, at a   certain time on a certain day I decided  to go out in front and lay a tape for   the men to erect some wiring about 100  yds in front of the Coys sector the work  to be done at night the tape being  for distance direction etc Well during the   afternoon word came through the Huns were  attacking on the left etc. etc. this would  have made the job awkward still it had  to be done and was done in fact I  had a beautiful roam around No Mans  Land it was quite interesting & exciting  as a matter of fact the Hun did  not worry us at all that day still  he may have. it is all a matter of luck you know one is just as liable  to be bombed in a back area and   getting it in the front still believe  me I am not looking for VCs  or anything like that and am always   as careful as possible. Give my  love to Gracie & tell her the further  she is away the better I like   her. Started this letter in ink to   be flash but the old pen has  run out so that settled the  flashness. Hope you receive the  present I sent along from London  in due course expect you will  all right. lots of love to all,  Bob.