TELEGRAMS BRITISH EDINBURGH. TELEPHONES 8966 TO 8972 CENTRAL. 
EDINBURGH.

Author: Robert James Henderson. Date: 18.2.1917.
 My dear Mum. Having a grand ten days rest and holiday in Scotland.  This is my second visit to Edinburgh arrived here from Glasgow last Friday night leaving again for Glasgow tomorrow and leaving Glasgow for London on Tuesday or Wednesday night Left London 
for Glasgow last Monday night with a Scotch officer whose married sister lives in Glasgow   we are staying with her   they are very good to us   we do anything we like of course both in Glasgow & Edinburgh things are terribly slow after London yet everything is very interesting and quite a  
lot of fun can be got. Have been doing very little sight seeing these days more or less a bit bored with that sort of thing besides the chap I am with cannot walk much so that we just potter about and take things easy  eat a lot drink a lot do the block etc etc. 
of course this is the life but after all a bit unsatisfactory and most expensive.   Am suffering at present with a bad cold sore gums sore throat and a rotten cough which keeps me awake most of the night and expect worries most other people about one must see the doctor at the hospital when back
 and get fixed up   it is impossible to get rid of a cold in this country in the winter although this winter has supposed to be have been very severe   to date have not felt it   out of the way the part that strikes me most is the dulness of each 
day a bit on the depressing side I think Expect you will know by this time that Nana is in England save and sound and likely to be here for the next 5 months or so said he would cable  and let you have his address. 
and am greatly pleased & releived to know he is here and should have a good rest and a splendid time.  Leading the usual life in London plenty of good times meeting plenty of interesting people and generally in theform Am just about on my last legs now as far as this good time goes.
expect to be getting back shortly now still I am quite satisfied have had a good spell and simply a wonderful time right throughout.  Expect you are all having a grand time on the coast and trust it will not be long before we shall get back for a surf swim.  lots of love and kindest reb remembrances to all, Boby.