No. 4 London Gen Hos. Denmark Hill, London.

Author: Robert James Henderson. Date: 4.12.1916.  My dear Mum, Received letters from you dated 3.10.16.  15.10.16. of course delighted to hear all the news. Wrote to Jane a few days ago and told her all the news but since have just returned from a week end to Brighton am just waiting for afternoon tea to come after which I am going down to dine with the Henleys at St. Ermins Hotel was to have gone last Thursday but something much more fascinating  turned up and I did not go however it  was not a fixed appointment having an open invitation to drop in and have dinner on any time I like. The leg is going on fine have not had it dressed since last Friday morning after tomorrow shall probably have no dressing on at all the incisions have healed nicely also the skin trouble The sister says I shall need a months massage now but think she is putting on a bit she is very keen to keep me here for Christmas & New Year that is the best of getting in the good graces of these people I come in when I like go out when I like in fact can do nothing wrong although she gives me sevi great lecture in fun about late nights what I do how much I spend what I drink etc etc do not get false impressions the lady I refer to is a big red headed Scotch woman about 35 yrs old in charge of the ward she has a real big heart and does everything she can for her boys as she calls us. The Scotchman named Mc.Callum & self had a great week end at Brighton very expensive costing each of us £10 from Friday until Monday of course we did things very well stayed at the hotel metropole had fine rooms, food, and attention. Of course expect you have been to Brighton it is a very gay spot beautiful promenade plenty of fine girls gay music on the pier etc etc. No breakers as far as I could see & no sand all pebbles still a very xxxx beautiful place and am sure one could have a fine time there for a fortnight or so something I think after the style of our Manly yet in other  respects totaly different What beautiful trains  they have in this county we had a through  train each way with dining pullman cars  easy chairs and very comfortable the journey  only took 1 hr ten minutes it must be  well over 40 miles from Victoria 1st class  accomadations in the trains here are is simply  gorgeous more like a drawing room than  a railway carriage Have not the slightest idea  how my money is going to hold out if I  am in hospital for another month then get  about a fortnights leave and live at a Hotel  in that fortnight go to Scotland, Liverpool  and other places shall have to send through  to the bank for another fifty pounds or so  but have no idea how my account stands  whether I have £50 or not to my credit with  the bank of N.S.W. however expect they will  let you know and if short so you might  fix it up for me think I have some  money in the Savings Bank but really forget  how much Well my dear shall write again  soon lots of love to every one from Bob. 