
Author: Robert James Henderson

Regiment: 13th BATTALION, A.I.F. 
Location: FRANCE.
 Date: 21st April 1918,
 My dear Mum, Once again in the line and do not know what will be doing at any minute these strenuous tunic spells leave etc are out of the question for the time being still everyone is very cheery and as far as the Australians are concerned far from being beaten they are doing wonderful work and have saved the situation on many occasions lately the highest praise has come and still comes to us from all the Heads. Of course we are losing men but what else can be expected if you do your job. and after all it is good fun having a crack at the oncoming thousands of Huns even if one loses ones
live eventually of course those of us who are still going have had wonderful escapes to date hard times soft times exciting times and very interesting times worrying times and all the rest of it sometimes sad sometimes humorous wonderful experiences many of which could not be Told. The position seems a bit obscure at present and no doubt there will be some terrible fighting in the next few months but am inclined to think that in the long run the Hun will come a big crash we all trust so any way. Have had a wonderful quiet day in the line it has been clear sunny and most interesting Airiel activity on both sides has been great to watch imagine some 30 or 40 planes on a nice clear sunny morning fighting diving climbing at anything from 2,000 ft to 10,000 ft above you I sat with  my glasses and watched them for 
about an hour it was a ripping sight and most exciting. of course to-night, tomorrow and so on might be just as gruesome as to-day has been quiet & pleasant. Still we all plod along cheery and bright the whole time on the surface at any rate. Had a letter from Lorna dated 16/2/18 also from Jane and you which I have answered. Tell Lorna we spent Xmas in the snow about 10 miles in front of Perronne the particular spot is now in the hands of the enemy a place we were in having a few days rest lately has also been taken by the Huns and several other places where we have just left as it were which seemed to be quite safe and ours for good the Hun now holds it is very sad to think of and expect it will all have to be retaken looks as if one has employment here for a lifetime any way it will save looking for another 
 job. Tell Jane I received the socks & tin of tobacco quite OK also received nice letters from Roy Blair Lucy Dags Billy Bull will try and get them all answered Col Murray VC etc has left us to take charge of the Div M.G. Battn which will be a great job for him he has always been very good to me and shall miss him very much he is a great fellow trust you will all have the pleasure of meeting him one of meeting him ^ these one day. Nana is quite all right as far as I know we are a good away apart at present but expect to rejoin our Div. shortly he was at the same school as Roy Gowing who is one of my young subs he has been back about a week & told me all about Len they had some great times together while at The school no doubt he will let you know all about it. Well my dear have no more news at present very busy still going strong. best love to everyone glad to hear you all had a great time down the coast. and trust at some future date we shall all be together there having just as good a time, Bob.