V & A Ward No 4 London General Hospital Kings College Denmark Hill London Author: Robert James Henderson.
Date: 16.9.1916
 My dear Mum. Have been having rather a bad time with my leg the last few days. The confounded wound turned septic which was the  cause of an operation which they performed last Thursday afternoon. Of course my leg is in an awffoll state at present 3 large cuts being made and 4 tubes inserted the whole thing is very sore it is dressed twice a day tubes taken out & put back etc so you can imagine all this is very painful. However expect the thing to mend rapidly now  although it will be the best part of a fortnight or 3 weeks before I  shall be able to hop around. Am looking forward to a good time when 
better again. Our late Colonel has invited me to Scotland for some shooting Henley's have invited me to Plymouth also have invitations to go to Liverpool I must really go and see the Henley's first. do you know I have never even written to them since Leslie was killed  but although I tried I could not write absolutely but shall explain. when I see them personally expect you will write to Mrs Henley Mum if you have not already done so. Ruth Murray-Prior was here last Thursday afternoon finding out what we knew about poor Toby Barton who is missing but having just come up from the operating theatre I was not feeling too happy she is a great  worker in connection with the Anzac Buffet here she promised me a great  feed when I went down. Edna Brierly and her sister came in again yesterday to see me they brought two lovely  baskets of fruit and lots of papers it is jolly good of them they are both working at one of the hospitals 
here doing pantry work or some such  thing then there are about 18 officers of the 13th battalion some in this hospital others convalescent in London they all come to see me so you see things are not too bad. Tell Father not to send any money until I cable again think I can arrange without worrying him shall get the Bank N.SW. here to transfer part of my current account with them in Sydney to their branch  here this appears to me to be a much the better way of doing things then I  shall have a current a/c here will be able to get a letter of credit for travelling, etc etc.   Had a letter from  Nana yesterday he is OK and doing  well he wants me to cable for money for him to be sent to London I  told advised him to do what I am doing when he comes across if he does. however if he wants it still I shall cable for him shall probably hear later. Shall cable when convalescent & able to hop around also when I leave here again for France. Best love to all from, Bob.