No 4 London Gen Hos. Denmark Hill London.

Author: Robert James Henderson. Date: 30. 11. 1916.

My dear Jane, Only just received your letter dated 3rd of Sept last night expect it has been chasing me for some time Tell Lorna I have received her letters dated 17/9/16. 24/9/16. but know she sees all the letters I write home so feel sure she will not mind if I do not answer then also received Eileens letter you addressed to me shall write to her later Am still in hospital but the leg is getting well too quickly in the course of a few days it will be quite healed but shall need a lot of massage so expect to be here for Xmas not neces perhaps in the hospital but attached expect to be back with the battalion in France again about the middle of January that will allow for 2 weeks holiday after being discharged from hospital Could easily get a job here in England but if fit feel I should much rather be back with the battalion and in it again besides I have a large reputation to live up to and you know a man has to prove he is as good a man after being wounded as he was before then apart from that it is great fun & the excitement and fascination grand but of course an awful life while it lasts. Tell Mum I received the parcel with the leather waistcoat and other nice things they will be most useful when back in France everything is most useful. Have you heard from Nana at all the little devil has not written to me for a long time hope he is all right Gwen Davies (Sister of Hope) has made a bosca cake for him and is sending it to him for Christmas. Of course am having the time of my life here in London the hospital is more or less a boarding house for me now go out every -day and night which of course requires tons of money for believe me this is the city to spend it in Usual round of theatres afternoon teas girls dinners etc only wish you were across here Jane my you would enjoy this town there is absolutely no place like London for having a good time and believe me I am taking advantage of my opportunity Am going to Brighton this week end with a Scotch officer from this ward named McCallum we are leaving on Friday afternoon and coming back on Monday afternoon have made all sorts of nice arrangements booked rooms at the hotel Metropole etc am looking forward to some time my first trip away from hospital for a few days. but it shall not be the last shall let you know all about the trip later have some nice girls in London who want to come down with us but as there are plenty down there there is no sense in taking them Took Millie & Elsie Henley to the Trocadero for afternoon tea last Saturday afternoon they wanted me to stay for dinner at their hotel but could not as I had seats for "Aida" which as usual I enjoyed immensly I  h am having dinner to-night with the Henley's so expect to have a cheap night for a change Rather a funny experience the other afternoon coming back in the tube from Hyde Park Corner (where we spent the afternoon in the park watching the ladies etc riding in "Rotten Row") to Piccadilly Circus two charming lasses gave us the glad eye of course being very naughty of course we spoke to them they were going to be fitted at their tailors so we went along to One of the girls names was Lawson a cousin to the Lawsons who lived at Drummoyne and later at Ashfield she has been to Australia & Canada and was most interesting is it not strange meeting people like that who know people whom you know. Well we took these girls to tea and dinner at the Trocadero & later went down to their flat at Putney where they live they were both bosca girls beautifully dressed with apparently plenty of money of course have invitations to see them any time and all the rest of it so you can bet your life we will be there. Who do you think I met in town yesterday Hugh McClelland who is a Major in charge of transports or something of that sort could only see him for a minute as I was in a terrible hurry having an urgent appointment to keep however gave him my address & told him to write me and make an appointment next week should love to see him and have a yarn. Well Jane dear shall dry up see you all have a good Christmas wish I were at home to with this beastly war over. Lots of love to all, Bob.