Author: Robert James Henderson,

Location: France. Date: 27th May 1917,
 Dear Mick, Received the following letters in good order and condition from home 3 from Mum 27th Feb  25th March  18th March one from Jane 1st April one from Lorna 31st March one from yourself 26th March and all very nice to believe me. Still going strong and feeling OK am very busy being in command of A Coy Harry Murray having gone on leave to England for 20 days He will not be back in time for the next stunt which comes off shortly now so that this poor chicken will have all the responsibility and worry of a Coy commander in action however expect we shall all do our bit all right. Had a lovely young route march this morning we were to have had a church parade but it was cancelled and Coys independently went for a bath  Baths are rather scarce at present so that we take every opportunity to getting the boys a good wash even if it breaks into the Sabbath Church arrangements. We left at 7.30 am and marched 4½ miles to the baths then of course 4½ back I was mounted so did not feel the walk at all it was a glorious morning and the road we took passed through lovely green fields trees hedges etc Mum would have doted the whole country is simply lovely now and the weather perfect quite hot in the sun which shines strongly everyday and more or less seems to keep going half the night it is quite light at 9.45 PM. On arrival back to my billet about 10.30 am feeling dusty etc was about half undressed when our Brigadier walked in he is a great sort wanted to know how we were etc etc sat down had a long yarn I played the part of host and gave him a cup of coffee and a nugget of bread and butter the larder being empty of biscuits etc. The Coy mess felt quite honoured th at entertaining the Brig although he got little and just had to put up with what was going like the rest of us. I rode down to D. Coy officers mess who invited me with me to dinner to day and very nice too soup chicken plum pudding champagne etc then Capt Henry of B Coy called to see us at ACoy 
mess and stayed for afternoon ^tea so that the Sabbath has been calling day all right about the only day in the week one has any time to see and have ^a yarn with other officers of the battalion when Coys are billeted so far away from one another each Coy is run as a young battalion in its own. We have another big boxing contest coming off next Tuesday evening the N. Zealanders want to have a go at us  this is the first time we have been together since the peninsular & Egypt am enclosing the programe. Congrats old thing am terribly pleased to hear you clubbed your final hot stuff now L.L.B you might save a job for me as office boy or something like that Think the leg is quite OK too having done some very long marches & strenuous work with no ill effects resulting. No doubt I am sure not in my opinion about the war but am hoping the darned show will finish this year. Do not worry about coming over the family is well represented besides you will be wanted at home
to look after Mother & Father. Tell Jane to write and tell her little brother what is doing shall have to interview young [[A?]] for her. Saw Daddy- Long-Legs played in London and enjoyed it immensely in fact one of the best I saw also read the book which was great while in hospital. Thanks so much for the financial statement see I still have a little left but if any more trips like the last eventuate it will not go far.  left a balance of £5 in the Bank N.S.W. London and my pay book is £3 overdrawn so that if I go to London again it is a cert that I shall require more money across have worn out all my clothes etc however sufficient unto the day etc. Well kid I could ramble on but am a very busy man and have many other letters to write.  lots of love to all, Boby.

 Expect to be in action before the 10th June. Have not heard from Nana for some time expect he is still in England and having a good time generally.