N.o 4 London Gen Hos. Denmark Hill, London.

Author: Robert James Henderson. Date: 7.1.1917.

My dear Mum, Just fancy being in this place over 4 months now who would have thought it at first it is indeed a long time to be in hospital of course I am quite all right again now except for a little weakness in the right leg and the question arises whether a chap could stand the strain of long marches with gear to carry and as things are very quiet at the front now see no necessity to hurry as far as can see I could stay here indefinitely and swing the lead properly but I shall not shall probably get them to give me my discharge about the end of next week and at present intend to stay at the Regent Palace Hotel Piccadilly Circus of course until going before a medical board do not know how much leave if any I shall get but expect about a fortnight and in that time I may go across to Ireland nothing like taking the opportunity of seeing all one can. in fact if lucky enough to pull through this stunt should like to get my discharge here and go home via America on my own. however should not be able to stand the strain financially Have a sort of feeling this war will end at the latest the end of this year and in my opinion somewhere about June I sincerely hope so think this peace talk is the beginning of the end. Do you hear from Nana have not had a line from him for weeks. but hear he is quite all right a pity he cannot get across here I could show him around and put him wise to a lot in this town Went to Drury Lane Panto. the other night Puss in New Boots with Madge Titheradge the principal boy it was a fine show and splendidly staged this theatre is supposed to have the largest stage in the world. so that a panto shows up to advantage there. There are 4 Pantos playing in London at present must see them all. Saw Chas Woolley also Allan Cooper in London yesterday Chas has his commission now. and Cooper has a commission with some English regiment it is great meeting all these chaps also met John Mills & John Cowdery yesterday so that quite a wild evening ensued. Am just going out now to Kentish Town to see a lass and have tea shall probably bring her back to London for dinner tonight then may-be some music hall after although Sunday a lot of shows are open. Shall write again soon lots of love to all, Boby