V & A Ward No 4 London General Hospital King's College Denmark Hill London.
Author: Robert James Henderson. Date: 25.9.1916.  My dear Mum, Still in the same old  spot but getting along very nicely if  slowly. Got up on a wheeled chair  two days ago for the first time  which was a great change they  will not let me put my foot to  the ground yet but I have only  one small tube in the leg now  the hot forments are discontinued  and the incisions healing nicely  so that in the course of another  fortnight I should be quite all  right again am very anxious to  get out of this and have a  look around you can imagine I would not take too kindly to  hospital life still everyone is very  nice the nurses and sisters spoil me properly The little girl who dresses my leg and self have furious debates  every an day as to how long it will  be before I can get about even with  a stick etc but she is too shrewd  and will not commit herself. For me I have several invitations this  week. One to go out to the  Brierley's to dinner one night before  next Sunday as they will be out of  London after that for some time  also an "At Home" stunt next  Wednesday afternoon at which Ada Crossley is going to sing then I  want to have a trip to Scotland with one of our officers before they  go back the holidays of the most  of them are drawing to a close  now however anticipate no trouble in  getting a congenial mate here. Funny making all these plans what I am going to do etc when one may only get a couple of days leave if that You see being in the hospital so long and of course battalion being very short of officers they send you back right away if fit. The best thing is a small crack which keeps you in hospital about a week then you get about 3 weeks holiday which only absents you from your battalion a month or so but if we  here for a month or 6 weeks then added to that another month holiday you can see it is some considerable time to be away. However one may be lucky Any how expect I shall be glad to get back after a couple of days kicking around same old story anticipation is better than realization I am fixed up as far as money is concerned having got the Bank of N.S.W. here to transfer £100 from my a/c at Annandale to their branch here they have notified me that the money is waiting for me so I shall open a current a/c with them here Ask Mick to find out what balance I have left at Annandale & let me know in case I wish to send for more also tell him I may have some left over here if I get slugged not to forget to get the balance back to Australia.
The battalion sent me a great mail across a couple of days ago 12 letters from Australia and a Balmain Cricket Report from Billy Bull. 1 letter from Hope it was great 3 letters from Lorna 1 from Mick 1 from you Mum 2 from Lucy Cowdery 2 from Dag & 2 from Jane Tell Lorna & Jack I think I receive all their letters but do not answer them as I know they see the ones I write home and it is not much use writing the same stuff out twice being am so lazy as ever you see When there again when one is in the field time is very limited but am always glad to hear from everyone Being in the hospital has given me a chance to get my correspondence up to date but expect I shall fall short again as I am able ^to get up and play bridge now no need to ask which I will choose playing bridge or writing letters. Great excitement here on Sunday night or rather early on Monday morning. The German Zeppelin Raid again in London & districts. The bombs &  guns woke me up as a matter of fact there was were a lot of casaulties & damage done only about ½ a mile from this hospital Still it did not worry me much I smoked a cigarette put my head under the clothes and went to sleep again feeling very safe these raids seem very minor to me after a bombardment at the front Still it would be rotten to get a clout over here when away from the front would it not. You will no doubt get full accounts of these air raids in the papers so shall not discuss further. Am just about to have my leg dressed then a game of auction so will shut up. Have not heard from Nana for the last fortnight but expect he is all right Shall write again when there is something doing Please excuse the scribble, etc Love to all from, Bob.
 Shall cable when convalescent also when again off to France to join the Battalion. RJH