H.M. Mediterranean Expeditionary Force. Cairo  24.10.1915. Dear Mum Hana and the crowd got away last Monday morning all right at 6 o'clock a.m. but am unable to find out where they have gone to either Lemnos Island or Selonica. I have just completed one weeks work at the Machine Gun School it is very interesting but quite a lot of study to do as there is a great deal to get through in 3 weeks. We had our first examination yesterday morning which was in the care and description of the gun I did fairly gaining 79 & 82 marks out of 100 in each case this week we carry  on with the mechanism of the gun and stoppages. The work is very interesting also the lectures on Map Reading Characteristics of the gun history of gun etc. which we have so far received from Major Pardo are indeed fine He gives a great lecture having been in France fighting for the past nine months he has lots of interesting points to bring into his lectures & being an Englishman has a nice voice and good flow of language We get up at 5-30 work from 6-30 - 8-30 then from 10 until 1 and 2 until 4-30 with a half holiday on Wednesdays & Saturdays & of course Sundays off. This gun I am starting to learn something about fires bullets at the rate of 500 per minute & has an all round traverse so you can imagine the amount of damage done and the use an efficient a machine gun section is in the army. There are 6 men to each section and of course each one has to be able to do the work of any of the six, in case of  accidents etc Last night I had another good trip on Nile taking Sister Garvin for a blow. The moon was full and the breeze just nice we had plenty of nice things to eat and lots to talk about While out at the hospital I was speaking to some of the lads there was enquiring about Jack Edgley. Rumour has it that he has gone off his head and is not now at the front but this may not be true tell Jane Cocks. Jack Cowdery's friend is very ill in the hospital I did not see him but heard from Sister Garvin, he is not in her ward but she seems to ever know something about everybody. Some of the sisters are riding out to the Pyramids on donkeys by moonlight tomorrow night I was invited to join the party but decided not to as one cannot work & fly around and work to the trip should be great fun. Have not received any letters for some time but do not expect to now as things are a bit mixed here & they may have gone on to the battalion wherever they are however Hana will forward back to me if he receives any during the next 2 weeks as he knows where I am. Had rather an unpleasant experience last week - for which lasted for about 3 days I was broke and unable to get to Cairo for money then when I did get to the bank it was closed language was fierce for a while and if I remember aright it is the first time I have ever been without enough money to go on very unpleasant in this country where you die "not known or trusted" However I shall do my best to see that it does not occur again. Best love & remembrances to all and of course plenty for the Whanfried Moby. Boby. 