Telephone: REGENT 6060. Telegrams: CARLYLE CLUB. 

The Carlyle Club. 
211, Piccadilly, LONDON, W.

Author: Robert James Henderson Date: 28.2.1917.
 
My dear Mum Went up for my medical board yesterday morning I was thoroughly disgusted and fed up of the whole show they kept me waiting from 9-30 in the morning until 12 o'clock I said yes to all their questions being put through the third degree and as I wanted was marked General Service fit they asked me how far I could walk without getting tired in the bad leg I replied anything up to 20 miles they seemed rather taken back it was quite good fun personally I was in a furious temper being kept hanging around for so long characteristic of course of headquarters However I have 14 days 
leave am due to report at Perham Downs on the 12th March from there shall go straight across to France shall cable you just before leaving London Am staying at the Regent Palace Hotel and likely to stay there all the time unless I go down to Brighton for a few days the weather here is just getting lovely again Celebrated my first day out of hospital yesterday quite well H.Q all the morning met Ralf Kell who is across here in hospital again wounded very slightly though had lunch with him kicked around until five o'clock with him then met some chaps across here at the club had tea here met a girl at seven o'clock had dinner after which we went to The Bing Girls at the Alambreha Theatre it is a topping show much better I thought than the Bing Boys The show came out about 11-30 pm went on then to the Trocadero for supper it 
was very gay and nice Of course a proper course supper and two bands one for rag time music only the other ordinary as soon as one finishes the other goes on so that one has continuous music which is varied every second item being all the latest rag - time I enjoyed it all very much everything being very gay wanted to take the lass I was with and rag right down the supper room however that could not be done Left the Troc. at 1. o.clock PM saw the girl home in a taxi and got back to the Pub about 1-30 PM after putting in a very gay evening. all these times alas are coming to an end but one cannot expect it to last for ever Only hope Mark can get down to London
for a couple of days before I go away should like to show him around and put him wise consider I know London quite well now and so I should over 6 months here and what a wonderful time I have had it has been simply gorgeous trust the Hun will let me get back home again it would be a shame to have all this wasted. expect all this experience will be no good in the next world except perhaps I should have a better chance against the devil now should possibly be pretty wise to his ways now.  Am meeting Ralf Kell tomorrow we are going to the Windsor hotel to have lunch with the Henleys must ask the girls out to the theatre and give them some time have not been there for a long time upon my soul I never seem to have time. Expect my mail will be everywhere for the next couple of months chasing me all over the country but hope to get some eventually expect it will be about the end of March before I join up with the battalion again going through bases etc. Shall write again soon and let you know about my last fortnight in London. love to all, Bob.