Author: Robert James Henderson,

Location: France 
Date: 8th September 1917
 My dear Mum, It is Saturday night we have had a strenuous days training and no officers meeting with the C.O. tonight so that I have gone mad and actually written about 6 short letters notwithstanding I could ill afford the time. Must tell you this little joke had the Coy out doing some shooting in one of the fields this morning when one of the chaps rifles went off while practising rapid fire it was the a very close shave to the Brigadier who had just blown on to the scene but fortunately no damage was done He asked me if I wished to get him out of the road in a joke I told him no but as time was short for training & facilities as far as safeness was concerned poor me just took a risk he laughed and later sent through word to the CO. that he was very satisfied with the work
being done and thought the musketry practice grand. One handles bombs rifles explosives of all kinds these days without worrying much about the dangers attached case of familiarpity breeds complempt contempt I expect. Wrote a few lines to you the other day but have now forgotten what I said Will be here about another week which is to be a very strenuous one as far as work is concerned then expect to move on and participate in the show which is about to take place. Rather stiff luck for me expect I shall not be able to get my leave now which is about due. If it comes off cannot decide whether to go to London or Paris the former because I know the ropes & how to have a really good time the latter because it could 
be a change and most interesting however shall let you know later if the Hun is agreeable. Oh nearly forgot to tell you that I have been promoted to the rank of Captain of course having had charge of a Coy for the last 3 months have had a horse groom etc which naturally I use to some purpose Tell Mick he should see me swanking at times with riding boots spurs etc you had better send Jane across to London then I should be able to take her for a ride in "Rotten Ron" and purchance intoduce her to some of my Dukes Countesses etc or if the Serpentine happened to be frozen we might have a young skate during an interval does not that sound interesting  Arranged with D Coy to play them football yesterday afternoon marked out the ground with Sigs. flags arranged with the Coy cooks for afternoon tea had the band so that it was a la Cricket Ground. 
And although beaten it was a hard keen interesting game throughout the boys enjoyed it thoroughly at there is nothing like these games to keep them hard and fit for the most strenuous work that is always on hand. As far as I remember said in last letter I received your cable re congrats. Am feeling real fit except for a very bad cold hope I can shake it off before the winter sets in am not looking forward to it much but of course must take things as they come one may get another crack and consequently put it in in England again who knows one must first take things as they come lots of love to all, Bob.