No 4 London Gen Hos. Denmark Hill.

Author: Robert James Henderson Date: 25.11.1916.

My dear Mum, Received a parcel sent by you a couple of days ago containing sweets,  cigarettes, socks, pipe which was broken, tobacco etc sorry they did not keep it at the battalion and give it to some of the boys who really needed it also received a letter from Lorna dated 10/9/16  also one from Lucy Cowdery dated 10/9/16. it is a treat getting some news from Australia after being so long without any mail there must be a lot of your letters for me somewhere having only received the one to you sent direct to London. Still in hospital but the leg is healing up beautifully now can walk with a very little limp now have a sort of skin trouble now on the outside of the wound but that also is dissappearing the oly  only inconvenience being that I have to keep off the whiskey for a few days still you know that is not very hard for me to do Go out every day as usual and of course having a real good time have been to the theatres a lot in some cases paying in others having free 
tickets have booked seats for "Aida" to night in the stalls which cost 12/6 each and am looking forward to a good nights music. Went to a Music Hall last Saturday afternoon a fine concert at one of the theatres Sunday night theatre Monday afternoon free seats theatre Tuesday afternoon also free seats | and theatre again on Friday night free box in fact I have seen nearly every show in London now and that is saying something. See they are playing Romance in Sydney I have seen it in London with Doris Keane in the leading part it is a fine thing you might to see it. also been having the usual round of afternoon teas etc with the ladies meet Jeff. Street in the Trocadero the other afternoon having tea but could not have much of a talk to him you see I had a very charming lass with me he is staying at the Savoy Hotel so shall see him again.  also meet? Broughton who is a cousin to Norman Broughton who was killed a couple of months ago in France he seemed to know me all right although I was all at sea. Called on Gordon Inglis but heard he was not too well in some nursing home so left my card for him expect to hear from him later. No more news at present lots of love to all, Bob.
 Have heard nothing of Nana for a long time expect he is all right.