Author: Robert James Henderson.

Location: France,
 Date: 13.5.1917.

My dear Mum, Am feeling tip top and working very hard reorganising etc We are moving in a couple of days now for another part of France and will be attached to the 2nd Anzac Corps that is the 4th Div only it may only be temporary  Had a big day yesterday the whole Div. parading inspection & giving out of medals etc by Gen. Birdwood who also said nice things about us all & wished us all good luck. seems the higher commands want the 4th Div for some special job.  they certainly have done excellent work right throughout however sufficient unto the day you know. Major Murray has now a bar to his D.S.O. and is off to England any day 
now so I shall be very busy running A Coy during his absence  Had quite a good social afternoon a couple of days ago a place a little distance from here has a great tea room for officers only The Brigadier arranged to take the whole show for the afternoon and wanted all the 4th Brigade officers to turn up and meet one another etc etc we had tea and many other drinks of all descriptions the 16th Battn band a nice bright afternoon and some charming Fr young French girls to look after us it was great bringing all together I met chaps I had not seen for months from the other battalions in the Brigade The 13th Battn officers have arranged another little stunt there this afternoon Major Twyman and about 15 of us and driving in a G.S waggon with 4 mules in hand but also taking our band down having afternoon tea etc expect to have a bit of fun the 4 mules rope reins and G.S. waggon loaded with a bunch of us should be funny Had a good swim in the river close by yesterday evening took some soap & had a good clean up which no doubt was required the water is very cold which does not allow me to stay in long. This morning I got a chap to cut my hair so have been having a regular spring cleaning and feel much better for it all. McDowall our bombing officer ^ & self had a great little supper last night in his billet zero time was 11.P.M. we made a parcel he had sent to him from England look very  
small, sausages, ginger bread tinned pineapple when we were about finished the doctor walked in so that we had to start all over again with him however have felt no ill effects this morning McDowall is a great chap he comes from Dorrigo knows Roy Blair & Jack Edgley well bye the bye I met Jack the other day and had a long yarn to him he is a major now and looks splendid his battalion are is billeted not very far from us shall possibly see him quite a lot Had a letter from Nana the other day shall enclose it in case you have not heard from him he seems to be doing quite OK Shall write again soon lots of love to all, Boby.  