
Author: Robert James Henderson

Location: France,
 Date: 25th July 1917.
  My dear Mum,  Am very busy as per usual  it is raining cats & dogs to-day so have  snatched a few moments to write. We are  in exactly the same billets as we were  when we arrived in France last  year and strange to say I have the  same bed same room etc it is a   great little spot we expect to move again  in almost another week for some more  fighting. Officers of D Coy invited me to   dinner the other night am enclosing the  menu we had a great evening they   have one of the Chefs from the Union  Club Sydney in the Coy so you can imagine  we had some dinner. While out on a  route) march the other day I to met  Glan Satchell had a yard to him  he came down to dinner last night  after which we had some bridge and 
discussed old times generally, The C.O. Capt  Murray and myself are dining with them him  tonight at the 1st Aust. C.C.S. almost 2 miles  from us here is it great running into  these chaps again Hana & Teddy Armish  came over to see me a couple of days  ago Hana is quite all right again and   is Intelligence Officer for the Battn some  for attached to Battn H.Q. looks after maps  marks positions on same arranges billets etc  etc all that sort of work much safer than  a platoon commander. Paris leave has started  5 days for a limited number of officers and   men as soon as I get some money across  will try and get 5 days off probably after the   next stint if lucky enough to get through  am very keen to see Paris. Last Sunday   afternoon Capt Davis Drs Wallach & self  rode into a fair sized townfrom about  12 miles from line we had a great time  afternoon tea with some girls who could  play and dance to perfection drink the   good fizz and smoke the coffin nail with  great gusto a most entertaning afternoon  I can assure you these changes are about   the only things to take ones mind off  this soldiering with its accompanying worries  and responsibilities War new very rotten this  morning as far as Russia is concerned they  seem to be first (expression learnt in England) up the  hole in other words look as is there will be no  lulling to this war for a very long time to me  however what's the use of worrying shall write again  soon love to all, Bob.