(*Am feeling Jacques and looking forward to a great holiday in Blighty in the near future have £100 there in the bank not yet touched Paris leave is suspended at present but might be lucky enough to get there eventually nothing like bucking up &  seeing all you can what do you do think.*)  
Author: Robert James Henderson.

Location: France  
Date: 16.9.1917
 My dear Mum, Received letters from Mick you & Jane dated 10th July  8th July & 7th July respectively and very glad to get them & hear all the news. Sorry you were worried about the bit of a wound I received at Messines but would have cabled if I had of had the opportunity as a matter of fact did not think it my name would appear in the casualty lists at all however trust you have received previous letters telling you all about it We are leaving here tomorrow on the upward journey once more so expect we will be well at it again shortly. Fortunately or unfortunately I shall probably be left out this time and in all probability will be in England on leave what sort of luck is that. You see we are bound by orders to leave among others two Coy 
Commanders out and as I have been in everything since reforming it is about up to me the C.O says, Bomb. Wells is the other one of course I dont want it would sooner go in and have done with it however shell on the other hand feel a spell from a show will do me no harm in any case shall let you know later one never knows what will happen in a weeks time these days if lucky enough to get to England shortly shall cable to you from there & let you know I am on leave. Have forgotten whether I told you in last letter that I am a Captain now and of course full of swank in consequence yet it means a lot of work worry & responsibility extra: 
We had a great regimental dinner the other night here am enclosing the menu it was quite a swank affair the Brig. Div Commander & all the Heads were invited Tubby Major Allen of the 45th was present he was telling me all about Nana how well he was getting on & what a great deal they all thought of him then he added "but of course he is a Henderson so that enough has been said" It is great hearing such good news about him and know you will all be pleased to hear it. Had a great afternoon to-day. The morning till 11 o'clock Church parade then a conference with the "Brig." & in the afternoon rode across to the 4th Field Ambulance billets where we played them cricket The country around here is simply wonderful you would simply love it the whole place is simply a picture the 4th Field had a great piece of ground then we had our band a good afternoon tea and with plenty of whiskey 
& soda. We were beaten but had a real good game I scored  in the first innings but got going in the 2nd and made 46 of course saw the good Rupert Major Farber Major Welch and all the boys so you can imagine we all had a great afternoon. The Battn has just got another good Cup to its credit winning the Brigade Boxing competition just completed our tables look fine these days with our many cups displayed etc Received a letter from Dag & Billy Bull shall answer both at first opportunity Shall also write home again soon to Mick or Jane lots of love to all, Bob. 