Tell Dot Austin's number is 2328 She wanted to know (1) At Sea 26th July 1915  Dear Mum. Do not know when you will receive this letter as we appear to be having a through trip. The last few days through the Bight have been wet cold and very rough suited me down to the ground but some of the lads say they will never leave Australia again The food on board is still very good & the duties not too strenuous Have been on guard much the same as on land also in charge of fatigue parties getting frozen mutton flour & other stores up from the hold etc. I believe there is to be a concert on deck to-night but will let you know later about it. We have all sorts of games etc & plenty of reading matter on board so as long as one is not ∧sea sick . . this is the life. A rather funny incident occurred at lunch time to -day one of The mess orderlies slipped coming down to the mess deck with soup etc for dinner I will leave you to imagine the result amidst roars of laughter from the lads. You never saw such a mess in your life. Wara is OK and is writing. We have a canteen on board at which you can buy all sorts of things cigarettes 2d per packet. tobacco 5d 2 oz tins drinks biscuits sweets etc at very reasonable prices so we have some great feeds between meals then by spending 3d or 6d occasionally at the cooks galley you get a cup of soup so or some cakes, coffee etc. No more news just at present will finish this letter to-morrow. Had a great concert last night piano out on deck with full moon shining some of the items were very good indeed Met nurse Fuller & Crouch ? have had some talks to them they both very nice girls to-day has again been very cold rough & wet in fact most uncomfortable but suppose in a couple of days we will be running into hot weather. The officers on [*board are starting all sorts of sports & competitions for good prizes, boxing cards and all ships games & when the best of the company's are left in the finals it will be most exciting & interesting Have not touched at any port yet & do not know when we will Everything OK Love to All Boby*] 