V & A Ward. No4 London Gen Hos. London.
Author: Robert James Henderson. Date: 30.10.1916.  My dear Mum Still in hospital although the leg seems to be getting all right and with any luck shall dodge another operation can walk much better .and the swelling is xxxxxx going down. but expect it will be some time yet before getting clear of this place. Have had quite a busy week enjoying myself around London  One afternoon visited the House of Commons heard Mr Asquith, Sir Edward Carson & others speaking these debates are quite interesting & intend to have some more of it. Also went through Westminster Abbey a truly wonderful building is it not.? Had free tickets for two theatres Peg O' my Heart & Happy Day went to both these. Saturday afternoon went with a Canadian officer into town for lunch went and saw a Little bit of Fluff in the afternoon A very funny farce and after having a splendid dinner went to the opera Faust I enjoyed every minute of it have booked seats for Tales of Hoffman next Saturday. Yesterday afternoon
went for a walk through Hyde Park meet  Gwen Davies took her to afternoon tea then a taxi drive then the pictures until eight o'clock then on to the "Trocadero" for dinner which took 2 hours to finish it was some  dinner believe me to say nothing of the some  price. However feel no effects this morning so everything is right. This week I am making arrangements to have my teeth fixed up had a  letter from Millie Henley.  they are staying at a Hotel at St James Park where they have invited me to stay with them but of course at present have to be at hospital to have my dressing fixed each day however shall call and see them. Got my photo taken and posted 4 out to you last Saturday direct from the shop they are not very good but expect you will be pleased to have them hope they arrive all right. Received a magazine from Jack Tivey The odd . Number yesterday at the hospital apparently posted on from the battalion cannot understand why I do not re get some mail in the same way am going down to the base to-day to inquire about it. Have you been hearing from Nana I have not heard a word for the past month expect he is all right. 
Think I forgot to tell you about Countess Brusseys' At Home which I went to some little time ago.  It was tres bien very swank butlers footman etc etc. there were 18 wounded Australian Officers there and about the same number of girls (not wounded though) we had a very nice afternoon tea but of course I  had to be polite and did not do full justice to it the girls waited and  looked after us / splendidly After tea we  adjourned to a very large sort of lounge or smoke room where we had some fine music and dancing should loved to have had a fling but the stiff leg settled that the  girls also gave an exhibition of Turkey Trotting etc etc some of them appeared to dance well but I think the Australian lasses could show them many points Well I had a  real good afternoon the house appointments pictures carving etc were gorgeous. I felt quite like a Duke or something like that for the time being The weather here is has been ripping this month very little rain the sun shining every day and the quite warm I have not worn a coat at night yet  although all the people in London seem 
to wear great big thick coats whenever they go out. however expect it will be getting cold enough shortly shall have to buy a good thick coat. Shall write again soon lots of love to all, Boby.