
Author: Robert James Henderson.

Regiment: 13TH BATTALION,nA.I.F.
 Location: FRANCE.
 Date: 11th March 1918.
 My dear Mum, Received your letter dated 6th Jan. a couple of days ago. We are still out of the line but expect to be in again very shortly now do not think I shall have the luck to get my leave before going in Fritz is expected to launch a big attack any time now so that we are 
sure to be held up. Am going to the flying corp for 3 days some time in the near future for experience wont it be great shall have plenty of flying and no doubt a ripping time these chaps live like lords Am doting on it and looking forward to the experience very much Shall tell you all about it later. Have not seen Nana for some time he is away at another school which lasts about 5 weeks have only been to one school in France 5 days bombing
that was about 12 months ago still it is a good job am not very keen on schools on this side only ones I would like to go to would be Aldershot or Haling Island in England. Had a big Brigade show yesterday Church parade first then presentation of MM. DCM. medals & ribbons by Gen Birdwood after which a march past it was an excellent show the weather glorious. Everyone turned out well it must have been a great sight for an on looker we were congratulated on the show. We are having most delightful weather now the last few days have just been like Australian Spring nice warm sun & a clear atmosphere Yesterday the time was advanced an hour extra daylight business you know looks as if the the winter is about done & an early summer setting in which will always do me although this winter has not been too bad in France much better than I expected. Hope you received the snaps  I sent home of the snow about Xmas & new Year. Drs Wallack & self went for a great ride yesterday afternoon ended up in a good sized town had a topping dinner some oysters & champagne and some fun with the French lasses my things are different on this side of the world am afraid the Australian people would be very shocked at what goes on Am feeling pretty well Mum do not know whether I got rid of all that gas yet still there is no chance of getting away as long as a fellow can carry on Coy commanders are rather valuable beings and of course the longer at it the more valuable C.O's do not like letting you away when there is anything doing and there always  seems to be something expected all sorts of things expected shortly the wind is well & truly vertical lots of love to all, Bob.