Serapeum 3.4.1916  Dear Mick Have once again settled  down to camp life in this  hot dusty desert with its  increasing amount of torments flies, heat, dust etc.  However  we get plenty of good swimming  in the canal which is most  enjoyable the water is beautifully  fresh and very salty then  ships passing up and down  make things most interesting  there appears to be no  sharks so we can swim  anywhere & of course the  depth of water is as least  30ft.  Received my certificate  from the school yesterday and find I gained 92%  total with 8 exams which  was not too dusty for me Am attached to A Company  in charge of No.2 Platoon  under company commander Capt. Barton (Biddy), it is  indeed a small world what  think you.  Am getting on  all right so far this being  a blooming officer is not  too bad.  only pretty expensive my mess a/c from Wednesday  until Sunday last week  being 311 piastres which is  pretty solid though of course  one spends a lot of money  at the start on drinks  etc.  Still it is very nice  having a tent for 2 only  with a nice bed made of sand bags and a batman  to look after you. a bit  strenuous after living the life  of private for the last few  months still this chicken did  not have much trouble in  falling in to the extra  comforts.  Received a bulletin  yesterday dated 17th. Feb but  no letters so far. Nana is with the 45th. Batt. now  they left yesterday for the  front line of trenches about  12 miles from here do not  think there will be any  fighting there but a watch  must be kept.  shall probably  be able to borrow a nag  on Sunday and go out &  see him of course when we  get out of this country we shall come together again  & move together being in  the one division and all  of us hope the time will  soon come anytime I should  say after 6 weeks hence.    Have played quite a lot of  auction bridge lately the  Colonel & Pardrey being very  keen. So that  you see one still manages  to have a little game  notwith standing they say there  is a war going strong   Have just received 8 letters  (2 for Nana) and a parcel  containing tobacco cigarretes  shirts etc the condensed  milk tin was broken &  milk leaked out but no damage done to the rest  of the stuff  Everything  is very useful & deeply  appreciated.   Also had a letter  from Arthur Slocombe which  was most interesting it was  posted from Tonga on 14th of  December received here 4-4-16  also received another long letter from dear Hope Davies of  England in which she says  all sorts of nice things have  just finished reading the  letters & have sent the lot  through to the 45th Batt.  to Nana by Roy Traill who  by the way is going back  to Australia in about a  week to finish his course.   I told him to look you  up & let you know how  things are He expects to sail by the "Karoola" which leaves here about the 10th of April You are sure to run in to him when he returns. Have written to Mr Donoghue stating the alteration in my finicial pay etc since receiving my commission which dated from the 16-3-16 you might ring him up and ask if he knew received word otherwise if the letter goes astray they may think a man is coming on the double have also altered my allotment from 3/- per day to 6/- per day which should be paid into my a/c by the Government I am drawing 12/- per day & 3/- per day deferred makes up the 21/- per day. 12/- a day sounds a good deal deal to have on active service but mess a/cs batman drinks cards etc at all of which one must indulge in it does not go very far. then when one buys anything in this country if an officer you pay about double for everything simply an a way the Egyptians have No more news at present lots of luck hope you clubbed the exams & see you do not come away until finishing your course. Love to all Bob Metioned Mentioned in last letter I received the £35 all right in case you do not receive it thought I would mention same again RJH