Egypt. 6.5.1916.  My dear Mum. Received the two parcels you sent containing pipe socks cards chocolates cigarettes etc together yesterday they were simply boska one becomes like a kid at Christmas time here when there things arrive the excitement is intense and everything deeply appreciated. We were out doing some night drill last night so had all the afternoon off. I borrowed Toby Bartons horse and in company with Ken Patrick (who is also an officer in the battalion now ) went for a long ride along the canal towards Suez we had a great afternoon also a fine swim to boot it is ever so much more enjoyable when one has not to walk to these places We played the 16th Batt. cricket last Wednesday afternoon that being our weekly half holiday instead of Saturday afternoon the 13th won by 18 runs. I am afraid these soft sand wickets do not suit my peculiar style or any other then persons for that matter the highest individual score being 8 these desert wickets are suited for bowlers only nevertheless we had a great afternoons fun also a couple of drinks and a yarn in the 16th mess. Have not seen Nana lately but had a yarn to his company commander the other day Capt. Knox who said he was tip-top and had been assisting him with the pay-books of the company auditing same etc. All letters etc coming through now are addressed Machine Gun Section do not forget to alter that to A Coy. as I am now attached to same doing infantry work. We are still in the same spot and may stay in Egypt for some time as attacks are expected from the Turks shortly at a very short distance from here we are ready to move at a minutes notice. but all hope our assistance will not be required as our trip to France would then be delayed and the summer put in here which of course would be absolutely rotten. There is above no news at all we do nothing but drill & drill with an occasional swim the same old sand & heat, & flies every-day without any var change whatever. Am in the best of health & spirits best love to all. Bob.