c/o "OVERFRONT LONDON." REGENT 5000. THE ROYAL OVERSEAS OFFICERS CLUB, AT THE R.A.C. PALL MALL, LONDON, S.W.

Author: Robert James Henderson. Date: 31. 3. 1917.
 My dear Mum, Have arrived in London safely from Boulogne where I have been on duty taking a draft of men across to our base at Etaples Had a good trip back across the channel a nice boat doing 22 knots with a destroyer on each side talk about going for your life big mixed lot on board nurses generals men etc coming to London on leave from the front arriving at Folkestone we transferred straight on to a through train and arrived in London at 7.30 PM last night leaving Boulogne
at 4.50 PM in the afternoon guess that is not bad going Wrote you a few lines from the pub at Boulogne telling you about the trip across had just posted your letter when who do you think walked in Cecil Clifton fancy meeting him he had just returned from London leave and was going on to join his regiment was very pleased to see him looking so well and getting on tip top he is a Lieut think he said with the 3rd Battn. if I remember rightly the last time I saw Cecil was at Tel-el-Kebir in Egypt which is some time ago now.  Snowy Clayton who is now a Major is in car charge of the 4th Div. depot at Etaples also a chap named Webster is Adjutant a cousin of. 
Darky Webster the cricketer. I had dinner with them while waiting for my train back to Boulogne I expect to be across there any time myself now shall be glad to get away from Perham Downs.  Am staying here at this club until Sunday night when I shall have to get back to Perham.  of course expect I should go right down there now but if a chap cannot work his nut and get a couple of days in London on these stunts well he is silly Wired Kell last night he is aiming to see me at 1-30 PM to-day do not know
what we will do but shall being leading the quiet life here this time as a matter of fact funds will not allow otherwise  Was up at the Carlyle Club last night after dinner here met some of the boys and had a yarn and a few drinks but came back to bed early being very tired having done a terrible lot of travelling in the last few days with a fair amount of worry on the trip over and very little sleep It is snowing in London at present seems late in the year for it but will thaw shortly then everything will be wet and slushy however one can always get some comfort here so the weather does not matter much  Have had no mail for weeks but do not expect it with all this tearing about. lots of love to all, Boby