
Author: Robert James Henderson

Location: France
 Date: 27.11.1917.
 My dear Mum,
 Received letters from you dated 26th. Aug & 9th. Sept also one from Lorna 27th. Aug. these letters must have slipped as I received some of latter dated later some time ago however the mails are most eratic and one is lucky to receive them at all these days. Have just heard there is a big Australian mail in so expect some letters tomorrow  We have just completed a 56 mile route march which took 8 days and a very interesting and wonderful trip it was great passing through all the country which was all new to us and very wonderful when you consider that men had to be fed clothed paid billeted etc etc. Just the same as if we
were stationary. We had a great trip and everything went off without a hitch of course luck I had a horse to ride all the way which made it all the more enjoyable  About two days ago we arrived here which we hope is to be our destination for about 2 to 3 months at any rate we expect to put Xmas & New Year in here which is of course well back from the line If this comes off it is the first decent rest we have had from actual fighting for a long long time of course there will be lots of work training etc etc with the usual worries attached thereto.  Am arranging to give the Coy a good Xmas dinner get the officers to put some money a in and collect a couple of francs per man hire a room etc etc.
Then we have big football matches coming off musketry & rifle matches etc etc so that everyone is training hard. What do you think of my latest craze some of us are taking French lessons from the local School teacher 3 hours per week at ½ a franc per lesson  This is not a bad little village we have a great little Coy mess room a bed room each (the officers of course) with a bed in clean sheets etc then the people are very good and do all they can to obidge oblidge us. Went out for a ride last Sunday trying to find Nana found out where his battalion was all right but did not allow enough time to get there shall try and see him at the first opportunity.
The trouble is it is the devils own job to get away as a Coy Commander meetings with the C.O. and a hundred and one little things to attend to Am feeling much better again have regained my voice and I think generally picking up again. Major Marks is back again from leave he toured the South of France had a most gorgeous trip reckons Blighty is not in it.  Monte Carlo Paris Nice and such places shall have to drag this trip on when my next leave comes along about 4 months hence  Well my dear shall write again soon and let you know all the news possible lots of love to all, 
Bob.