Location: Perham Downs, England. 

Author: Robert James Henderson.
 Date: 16.4.1917.     My dear Mum,  Received your letter dated 18th Feb  also one from Lorna of the same date Am  still in this hole of a place so have  absolutely no news for you expect to  get away any day now and shall be  real glad it snows rains & blows  here like the devil have not been warm  once in the last fortnight Forget whether  I told you I had seen John Bull was  coming back to camp from Tidworth when  I saw old John with his motor ambulance  waggon Was right glad to see him we  had a great old yarn he looks splendid  and feels R. is with  connected with  one of the hospitals around here. We  do very little here play bridge every  day and night go on parade for a  little each day and that is all  Am feeling pretty fit again now the  mouth having improved wonderfully still 
this weather gives it very little chance.  War news of late seems very bright  and the Huns seem to be getting  something to go on with am in  hopes the show will finish this  year yet and if so if one is lucky  enough to get through expect it will  be a long time before me getting back  to Australia however that remains to  be seen. Have not heard from Nana  for some time think he is quite  all right he was last time I  heard from him about a fortnight  ago you have surely heard from him  by this he cabled and wrote soon  after landing in England. Got a great  shock hearing about Selwyn Dennis the  first I saw knew of his death was on receiving  your letter. These bum places are no  good to live in the risk is too  great especially for a married man  Told you abo all about the trips I  did not have to see the Davies  in Liverpool in a previous letter while  I was in hospital you should have 
received it by this. Did not have the  pleasure of seeing Mr. Osborne still he  may not have come to London travelling.  restrictions were great at Christmas time  for civilians. Many happy returns of  your past Birthday knew it was  in Feb. some time but had forgotten  the date hope I shall have the  pleasure of congratulating you personally  on your next. Well my dear no more  news at present lots of love to everyone,  Boby. 
 