Zeitoun Sunday
7th November 1915.
 My dear Mum Have just completed my course at the school and am back at Zeitoun camp among what they call the details may go away at any time now. I did quire well scoring 80% on the whole course
and have received a certificate for a machine gun sergeant of course the next thing is to get an appointment as such whether there are any vacancies etc however will find out when I get to the front The last week at the school was all right we had 2 days on the range with the guns & the rest of the time examinations both practical & theor & written papers. Last Thursday night we had a great concert in the N.C.O's mess. very select company Prince Alexander of Teck sang to us the song Sister Sousie sewing socks for soldiers etc. we all joined in the chorus. also our Major recited we also had a girl from the Kursaal music hall to sing to us and other artists General Spence & several other officers of high rank were there the whole thing was absolutely first class and most enjoyable. Went to the Kursaal music hall last night it was very good some of the items especially so. Sent a cable to father yesterday to sent £15 to the Anglo Egyptian Bank am not yet broke but am taking no risks the longer I stay here the more extrant extravagent I become one commences to find out the decent places also you seem to work the oracle so as to obtain more leave take risks without passes etc. I have not heard a word from Hana yet or received any letters from Australia as soon as I get a chance I shall find out from the base in Cairo where he is or if anything has happened to him this base  is not open on Saturdays or Sundays & closes at 5 o'clock on week days so being busy at the school have been unable to find out anything so far. Have had a quiet day in camp to-day. reading & writing out on Friday afternoon & evening also all day Saturday & Sunday night so that I had to take life easily to day. Do not know what I shall do here now, being a Machine Gunner now we consider ourselves to high & mighty to mix with the infantry to which we are attached here and as there are no machine gun sections formed here suppose we shall not do much more drill until we get to the front and become attached to a section however there are 3 of us together here in a tent we went through the school together so intend to have a good time & a thorough loaf now until sent away. fancy we are supposed to instruct the lads on machine gun work but having no gun here do not see that we can do much good. Ran across Jack Weedon & Docka here yesterday they have just arrived & were off to Cairo to have a look around. Am very curious to hear some Australian news & how things are at home & all the news about Drummoyne folk but the mails here seem to get mixed up to blazes. however if lucky I may pick up a bunch of letters for me somewhere. hope so. no more news at present lots of love to all Boby. 