Zeitoun 5.3.16. My dear Mum.
Arrived here yesterday  afternoon at the school of  instruction. Have been recommended  for a commission which  should be through at any  time now in the meantime  they have sent me up here  to go through the infantry course which lasts 3 weeks.   I am doing things in style  this time going through the  officers class.  All the heads in  creation here so this  chicken had to swank also  consequently when after arriving  here and getting fixed up  went straight into Cairo  and bought clothes boots etc to make myself presentable  of course this sort or thing  is most expensive I spent  about £7-10-0 yesterday and  seem to have nothing really  however I cabled to Father  yesterday to send £35 to  the Anglo Egyptian Bank Cairo  so that should see me  through for a while. Tell  Mick to fix him up to  with a cheque for same Had a great time in Cairo  last night so good in  fact that I did not arrive back here until  11 o'clock this morning  met Lieuts. Young & Murray  had a real flash dinner  and then went to the  Kansaal. which commenced  at 9.45 pm and lasted until 12.30 am. I then  went back with them to  their hotel and stayed all  night it was indeed great  to have a real good time  again. Everything is going  to be OK here we have  huts to sleep in with beds  and mats also armchairs  and a batman provided  a good reading & writing  room and an excellent  mess & bar which bye the  bye costs about 20 piastres  per day to say nothing of  batman expenses etc etc  this is all quite a treat  to me but damned expensive  but if one takes on these  swank jobs one must be  prepared to live up to them. I suppose. Of course I intend to work  real hard here and do  well for much may depend  on the result the trouble is  I have forgotten all my  infantry drill having been  doing Machine Gun work for  the last 3 months or so.   Nana has been transferred  to to the 45 Battalion during  this splitting up business I  expect to stay with the 13th  Batt.  we will be in the one  division and fairly close to  one another. I could easily  claim him and get him  back with me but think  it rather a good idea to  be separated and if I  receive a commission and  make good it I should  probably be able to do a great deal for him which  would be impossible if we  were in the one unit.  however we shall see later  as time goes on. Received  a letter from Mick the  other day dated 23rd Jan  also a paper the Herald.   Very glad to hear everyone well  and things OK. Shall write  again soon when some news  turns up should be plenty  shortly a great many En very  English Officers here which  should provide a lot of  amusement for me in  lots of ways. love to  all.  Me Nana & self  in the best of health &  spirits  Bob.