No 4 London Gen Hos. Denmark Hill, London.

Author: Robert James Henderson. Date: 10th Dec. 1916.
 Dear Mick, Feeling particularly pleased with  myself at present having come back to  hospital last night about midnight after  spending a f very gay night in London  to find a bundle of 20 letters waiting  for me on my bed all from Australia  Some from yourself Mother Jane Lorna Aunty  Polly Lucy Dag. Billy Bull have spent the  whole morning reading them and you can  guess I enjoyed myself they seem to be  my August and September mail glad it  turned up at last. The leg is simply  fine now dressed only every second day and  gives me no trouble a little massage will  fix things nicely now.  However the Sister  is determined I shall spend this month  here so towards the end of it shall  be swinging the lead more or less still  a opportunities do not occur like this every 
day. Have a very kind invitation from  Mrs Davies Liverpool to go and spend  Christmas with them at Liverpool have  several other invitations but have written  and accepted the Liverpool stunt it will  be a fine change to see the much  talked of Hope. The sister here says  I can get away on Saturday and  not come back to hospital until the  following Friday but shall return here  on Wednesday the day after Boxing Day   I do not want to bore them with too  much of me. Am still living the gay  life here in London plenty of fine girls  boy you would dote on it of course  gay theatres cafes etc etc. Went to a  swank "At Home" stunt last Wednesday  afternoon given by Mrs Edwards Afternoon  tea then entertained by music etc I met  Lady this and Lady that etc terribly  swank met another old girl there who  asked me to have tea with her next  Monday afternoon so that you see I  am getting around some. Had dinner the  other evening with the Henleys they are  all busy even Mrs Henley works every day at the Comforts business  Played one  of the officers here 250 up billiards  yesterday afternoon we were level pegging  to 190 or so he then made a 56  break and of course ran out soon  after however I have my revenge by  gro healthy beating him badly in 3 games  of snooker afterwards it was a  rather interesting billiard room there  were some girls playing and upon my soul you would laugh boy at the  women here they smoke their cigarette  and drink their wiskey & soda with  consumate ease in fact it is quite  in order to take girls into a pub  and have a drink with them I mean  quite respectable people you know. Well  old cock am in a terrible hurry  just going out to a charming lass's  flat for tea shall probably take her  to dinner after wards at the Trocadero  they give you a fine concert there  on Sundays to say nothing about the  food.  Shall write home again soon. shall  also cable when leaving London for France  that is if I have any money left which  is doubtful. lots of love to all, Bob. 