No4  London General Hospital Denmark Hill London.
Author: Robert James Henderson Date: 10.10.1916.  My dear Mum. At present one of the fellows who has just come in is sitting at the piano and playing every thing one can think of most beautifully it is great something after Fay's style. The past  few days the weather has been splendid here not too much sun but very pleasant and no rain I have been out every day and evening up till 10 PM wats  what a glorious fascinating place this London is it is most interesting the underground, buses, trams, etc trains, etc how wonderful it all is what a tiny little town Sydney and our other capitals are. Unable to get a taxi home the other night this place being some distance out and a limited amount of petrol allowed the  drivers so had to find my way by trains etc changed twice in the underground then into the elevated electric train I felt terribly clever of  course I asked questions but even then it might be very easy to go astray late  at night a few more days out and I shall know the difference between The Strand & Pickadilly. Time never hangs here how much there is to do  and see heaps of theatres and matinees every afternoon in the week. Do you remember Huntley who played in the Girl from Kays etc in Australia some time ago you doted on him went  and saw him in "The Happy Day" yesterday afternoon he was simply splendid the show was tip top felt an a duke the theatre was full so they put us in a box for fo same price as front stalls after theatre went to afternoon tea after did some shopping then to dinner from there to the  Regent Palace Hotel lounge had a  couple of drinks while having them studied human nature and then home at 10-30 p.m. after a very pleasant days outing I was out with a  Canadian Officer almost 14 stone 6'4" in height and a very handsome man generally it was simply lovely to see the girls giving him the glad eay eye wherever he we went. of course we did the same which meant five four. Met a great chap in the ward here who has just gone a Scotchman by the name of Elliott a Captain of the Cameron regiment before leaving he asked me if I had any friends in London I told him not particularly so he asked me to come and stay with him he is married and has a large place at Rogart Sutherlandshire said he would show me round but was sorry he was only allowed a certain amount of petrol for his car which would make things xxxx less xxxx enjoyable still he would be very pleased if I cared to  come along it sounds all right & he is and exceptionally nice chap a man about 34 yrs of age so this chicken has decided to take this trip When I  am discharged from here and find out how much leave I get shall go to Edinburgh stay a couple of days there then on to Capt Elliotts place for a few days are not people very decent. Shall be able to talk Scht Scotland to father if I return. Tell Mick I took Gwen Davies for a fly last Sunday afternoon and evening she is some hot stuff we had a great time and have arranged to have other outings later when one is not tied down to time. Expect I shall have to go and see Hope for a couple of days later. Saw George Knox (Capt) Nanas Coy commander in town yesterday he is over on leave for 8 days told me Nana was OK & was xxx forming one of a party to raid the Germans shortly it is fairly dangerous work this raiding business trust he comes through all right or a nice little wound would not hurt he would then get a spell across here which would give him a good rest? and a good time he would dote on it and of course thoroughly deserves a spell that is the only way of getting one these days the trouble is to get a sweet wound. I should not like a repetition of my little lot. expect it will be fully another week yet before I am all right these things when septic discharge until the bitter end. Am first going to have my leg dressed then off into the city until 10 pm to-night shall try to get my photo taken to-day one does not seem to get time to do any thing here such a lot of counter attractions I suppose. Trust everything is OK. lots of love to all. 
Bob.
 Have only received the one lot of mail from home to date Love.  