Moascar 30.1.1916 Dear Mick Have just come in from church parade which was more or less a farce those who were not near the parson being unable to hear. a word however it is a beautiful day and those who could not interest themselves in the service xxx put in the time by watching the tactics of a French plane which was directly bel above us. Nana has returned from Cairo where he had a great holiday spending about £20 in a week also met plenty of nurses & girls he new but suppose he will write and let you all know all about it. Received the billy from home at last on 26th January also puddings all the contents were in excellent order except figs etc which were around the puddings they were all mildewed but do not think the puddings were affected intend to have them for dinner to-day so shall know later. All the dainties were great we have been living like lords for the last couple of days. Also received a beautiful hamper from the office with all sorts of nice things have just acknowledged same in letter to Parry. All our battalion comforts arrived a few days ago tell Jane every thing was muchly appreciated and lots of useful stuff I think there was a sheep skin vest for nearly everyone in the battalion socks etc in galore. Have just had a yarn to Leslie Henley he tells me Reg Bull has received his commission in the dental corps was very pleased to hear the news guess he will be doting on it. They are fitting us all out with new cloths and anybody who is short of stuff is getting same so it looks as if our next move will be to England I hope so shall be glad of a change from Egypt. also received a very sweet letter from a Miss Davies of Cheshire England who starts with My dear Bob . and ends yours very sincerely M. Hope Davies always known as Hope she says all sorts of nice things and promises us a good time time what with this promise and the other letter from Surrey we shall be in for a good time if ever we hit the old dart. We have had a very heavy week's work but quite interesting galloping into action across the desert supporting the infantry etc etc also some good range practice with the guns. Tell Jane Jim Corney is not yet back with us received a pair of socks & letter for him from Lucy Cowdery shall hang on to same till he comes back. No more news at present lots of love to all  Bob. 