Egypt 22.5.1916.  My dear Jane Received a letter from you & Mick Lorna & Dags a couple of days ago and was glad to hear all the news. The next letter you receive from me will not be from Egypt all being well we expect to get a move on for France some time this week. Ran into Austin yesterday he told me he received another young parcel from you and was greatly pleased about same. The 45th came in from the trenches 2 days ago Nana came up to see me we exchanged letters he is looking very well  but a bit thinner they had heavy work and of course terrible heat out there & bye the bye he is now a lance corporal will be a Colonel shortly I expect. Just glanced through your letters before giving them to Nana who will return them later thought I noticed that Jack Edgyley is now with the 46th if that is so they are camped next door to the 45th about a ¼ of a mile away from us, so shall look him up at the first opportunity I have.
Had a great picnic last Sunday week all day on the canal took the mess cart down with provisions & drinks then swam & played bridge on the bank of the canal it was terribly hot & dusty and so much so that it was impossible to enjoy anything for 5 days last week the heat and dust has been terrific here but the last few  days have been better. We had a great picnic on Wednesday last 4 of us Capt Marks Lts Henry McPhillamy & self each had a horse & took our lunch. Rode to a nice spot on the canal had a nice young lunch played bridge & had several swims it was great just the 4 of us we also saw the Mooltan go through to England swam out to her and had a conversation with a nice looking lass on board from the water she asked what unit we came from told her the 13th she waved her arms & went generally mad saying she knew the 13th Comfort fund could not catch her name. It is great fun seeing these boats going through Then again last Sunday we had a another picnic all day on the canal this one we expect will be the last we all had a great day plenty to eat & drink and all had a good loaf in our  pyjamas which was great. No more news at present will answer Dags letter also  Lorna’s as soon as possible we are terribly busy at present inspecting etc etc Love to all Bob.