Regiment: 13TH BATTALION, A.I.F. 
Author: Robert James Henderson.

Location: FRANCE.
 Date: 15.2.1918.
 My dear Mum, Have just received your letter dated 2nd Dec 17 Yet have received letters dated 17th Dec some four or five days ago still there is no accounting for mails these days they are very erratic seem to come & go at all time any old time & any old how. Had some excitement two days ago left here In charge of 200 men for work in the front 5 am in the morning.
We entrained on a light railway & on the way up had a nasty accident one of the couplings broke & upset 2 trucks  5 men were badly injured which was lucky 100 of us might easily have been killed fortunately I was in a truck that did not turn turn still it was my first train accident & was not very nice However whether frightened or not one simply had to hop in get the injured men bound up & away with stretcher bearers detail men to clear the wreckage couple up again and go on with the work we reached the job 3 hours late after a good shaking up and during the work struck much shell fire & worry so that I was 
well done up when we arrived back at 6.P.M. Is it any wonder that a chap has several whiskies and turns in after days like these which often happen. of course the poor men have to do this work each day officers get one day in 3 or 4 which is quite enough considering the responsibility attached. Went to some great boxing yesterday afternoon 13th Battn won every match & naturally the officers won many francs to boot I collected to the extent of some of 250 competition is very keen & of courses one must back their own men Esprit de Corps you know. we always hold our own & a bit better in everything in fighting & all sport but see where the Battn comes from & who the officers 
and men are. Am putting in an application for leave to South of France for 8 days do not know where the money will come from or how I shall get on it does not affect Blighty leave for which I am nearly due again so they say. If granted shall hop in for my cut & see Paris Monte Carlo Nice etc. why not? do not be too surprised if I cable out for more money if this trip eventuates it will cost at least £50 then 14 days in England. Another £70 or so you will probably say most extravagant still it is better to do things properly besides times are abnormal in fact life itself is abnormal these times Still going strong & feeling pretty well expect to be in the line again very shortly for about 16 days then hope. for leave & another short spell which will bring us to the Spring & much offensive I expect love to all,  Bob. 