No. 4 London Gen Hos Denmark Hill, London.

Author: Robert James Henderson. Date: 13.1.1917.

My dear Mum, Received three letters from you dated Nov 15th Nov 13th Oct 24th all addressed to Horseferry Rd. yesterday I think you had better address my letters now straight to the battalion for shall be leaving London now I expect within the next month. Am feeling quite all right again propose leaving hospital about next Wednesday much to the disgust of the Sister she wants me to hang on for a while until the weather gets better but feel it is hardly a fail deal to stay here when one is feeling all right again Had quite an interesting afternoon yesterday in company with another officer we went around looking for a flat think it would be quite nice to take one presuming of course some leave eventuates however we have been unsuccessful
to date the trouble is to get one for a short period say a fortnight or month Had lunch the other day with the Henley's they are now staying at the Windsor Hotel Victoria St Ermin's having been taken over by the Government for war purposes they are all very well and working hard. Sorry to hear Jack Edgley is not well must find out where he is and look him up. You say in your letter you wish I had to remain in England 3 months who would have thought it have been in hospital 4½ months now thought at first about a month would fix me however I am not growling. Capt Browning is getting on fine now he will be here a good deal longer but still he is able to get about now and enjoy himself we were both hit about the same place on the same night came from France together and have been in the same ward here together You ask who is Capt Murray he is a Tasmanian who landed at the start at Gallipoli as a private with the 16th battalion afterwards he transferred to the 13th. he is a very fine fellow and the best soldier I have ever met he has the D.C.M. and has lately received the D.S.O but in my opinion should have the V.C. Have worked a lot with Harry Murray and get on very well with him He was a 2nd Lieut on Gallipoli and my Machine Gun officer there it was he who recommended me for my commission On the two stunts on the Somme I worked in with him he has charge of A Coy now poor Toby has gone he is a fine fellow and has done a terrible lot of good work. Had the greatest difficulty getting Murray to come in from No Mans Land without Jerry Fox as were both there together and must have been surrounded by Germans if he had got his own way. Lieut Murray left Sydney with me as a Sergeant think the girls met him at Liverpool one day He is in London having been hit badly on the Somme is going back to Australia shortly unfit for active service Had a big fall of snow yesterday it was inches thick on the ground Had another very nice letter from Col. Durrant expressing 
sorrow at my slow recovery and wishing he  was in London to have a fly around with me  he is a great sport He has also  been awarded the D.S.O.   lately also Major  Marks & Capt Pulling have received the Military Cross lately so the battalion has done  very well indeed one is indeed proud  to belong to such a battalion with such  a good name which of course is thoroughly  deserved for they always do good work Shall write again soon have a lot of  letters to Answer had one from Mrs. Davies  Herbert, Eunice, Billy Bull, Lucy Cowdery.  &  post card from Myra lately shall try and  answer all.  lots of love to all, Boby.