Serapeum 14.4.1916 My dear Mum
Nana came to see me on Wednesday last his battalion came across this way on a route march I only saw him for a minute as I had to go straight away down to the canal & swim in a race he left me this letter to post so will enclose a few lines He is looking very fit & they expect to come in from the trenches at any time now. Yesterday we had the most terrific dust storm I have ever experienced you could not credit the discomfort of same unless actually being in one it is also very little better to-day. I was out about 3 miles from her putting the boys through some shooting practices on a minature range when suddenly it started to blow and then the sand started to fly My eyes are still sore & my temper ruffled beyond description tents, clothing, food well everything in a hell of a mess. These storms would break your heart mum with out a word of a lie my bed & blankets had a layer
of dirt, sand, & pebbles 2" thick on them I simply went to bed & wrapped the lot around me cursing violently it will be a good job when we clear out of this country. Last Wednesday afternoon we had a half holiday when the 4th brigade held aquatic sports We had a couple of bands playing & the racing was exciting & well contested. I was one of 4 officers picked to represent the 13th Batt. officers relay race we had a great Tussle & just won from the 16th. Each man had to swim once across the canal which is about 120 yds & without training we all found this some job. The 13th Batt as per usual won nearly everything and is easily the champion battalion in the brigade as far as sports go and fighting too for that matter. Our officers are playing the 15th Batt officers a cricket match next Sunday afternoon and am just going out to have a practice of course the wicket will be horrible but there ought to be lots of fun obtained I think the best way to get runs on this desert for a wicket would be to get three parts tight then shut your eyes and swi slog. however will let you know how we get on next time I write. Have Am still playing a lot of auction bridge which is thoroughly enjoyed by me have played 3 nights so far this week. 1st night winning 34 piastres 2nd night winning 116 piastres & last night losing 85 piastres so you see the end of each week brings us out about square. we play for 5 piastres per 100 and have a very even four. Bye the bye I might mention my mess a/c for this week is 200 piastres £2 a little more than £2 so shall have to go easy. otherwise I shall not have much money to work on when going to France & perhaps England. for if I have the luck to see anything of these countries this chicken intends to have a real good time reckon I am just commencing to learn how to have a really good time No more news at present lots of love to all Bob.