Regiment: 3rd Training Battalion.   
Location: Lark Hill, England. 

Author: Robert James Henderson.
 Date: 23.4.1917.     My dear Jane,  Received letters from you yesterday  dated 14th. Jan & 11th. Feb respectively at  Perham Downs. Came across here yesterday  which is about 8 miles from Perham to  proceed overseas with a draft of men to  France next Tuesday this time I am  staying across and joining up the battalion  as soon as possible They have all had  a very rough time again being cut up  horribly the whole of the 4th Div. I believe  have been up against it. The poor 13th  as far as officers are concerned lost  heavily the following having caught it   Marks dangerously wounded Wells DP missing  Wells .T. wounded Morgan killed Shirtly killed  Lanaghan missing Gardiner missing Fletcher killed  Geary wounded Clasper wounded Cooney wounded  Kaler killed Glens missing Brown wounded Galagher wounded Gowing killed this was  the return up to the 19th. at Horse ferry  Rd there may be more through by this  it is very rotten all these fine fellows  going rumour has it that the 15th  Battn has been wiped out the C.O. &  Transport officer only being left so the  4th Brigade has apparently been up against  it. Murray fought his way through again  I believe which is excellent news he is  a marvel expect the battalion will want  reorganising and fitting out again now so  that it will a little while before they  are in action again no doubt however will  get all the news shortly expect to be  with them in about a weeks time.  Am enclosing yesterdays dinner menu we had  at Perham dont think we lived all the  while like it this menu it was just a flash  but was very excellent The mess here at  Lark Hill is quite good they have a fine  full sized billiard table gave the champion  here a game last night and won by 17  points considering I have not played for  months I put up quite a good game possibly a few whisky's & soda's were responsible have struck noone here I know so far.  No body has told me to do anything and  I have not butted in so intend to pass  the day answering letters am leaving here  for France tomorrow Received a nice lot  yesterday from Mum Lorna Lucy Dag &  Billy Bull will try and answer them  to-day the only trouble is there is  no news stuck down in these places.  Often think of all you people down at  Australia am glad you are all having  such a good time a surf would be  good but not in this climate it  is much too cold. It is indeed  sad news about Pat Dennis was  very surprised to hear had no idea  he was in bad health always  thought the climate suited him well.  Shall write again soon when there  is some news to tell you all  lots of love to all from your loving  brother Bobbie.  