V & A Ward No 4 London General Hospital Kings College Denmark Hill London.

Author: Robert James Henderson. Date: 27.9.1916  My dear Mum, The mail closes for Australia via America tomorrow at midnight so will write a few lines. Think I wrote a few days ago but have forgotten but expect you cannot have too many and although there is no news still I am in the humour. The old leg is progressing favourably though very slowly. have arranged to leave for Scotland next Monday week but after to day afraid there is no hope.  rather bad luck as I was trying to go with one of our officers who has deferred his trip until the last week of his leave so as to come with me. The set shock came about in this manner One of our Medical board people came along and asked how long before my leg could be all right again the Sister told him 30 more days I nearly fell through the floor Swore at the Sister told the medical officer she was pulling his foot and worst of all called him Captain when he was a full Colonel. head of our Military Medical Boards here of course there were roars of laughter from all I was playing bridge at the time every body thought this was a fine joke you see I could not see his rank badge properly thought he had 3 stars when they were 2 stars and a crown however I apologized to him and as soon as he was gone went for the Sister to find out about this 30 days stunt of hers. She said she was not going to have them sending me back to France too soon & so break the leg down again and although it might be that long before being discharged from here still that did not mean I should have to stay in all day. so after a while I hope to be able to hop around London with a stick. this news pacified me somewhat. although I am well fed up of this hospital Life. especially after having an invitation to an "At Home stunt and 2 dinners this week. However expect more invitations will come along later probably too many will not know how to keep clear of them. War news seems very bright lately all sorts of good positions of the Germans taken with plenty of prisoners etc yet they say very little about the cost in lives etc to us beds are never empty here and expect other hospitals are alike still there is no doubt the old Hun is becoming properly rattled and it is only a matter of time to bring him to his knees. It would always do me if the war ended now yet on the other hand am keen to get back and have another fly strange is it not.? Hope's sister Gwen Davies apparently works in London she has been home for the first fortnight but has now returned to London she wrote me a sweet letter and wishes to come and see me next Saturday afternoon Of course I shall be very pleased to see her in fact think I shall do a line with her now instead of her sister ask Mick if that would not be a good stunt. Hope tells me she has never been to London fancy living in Liverpool all these years & never going to London I told her t she will have to come for a fly around with me but what would Mother say it is quite good sport writing to people you do not know and have never seen however will see what the sister is like shortly quite a good sport by the sound of her letter. My special sister is going to let me have her photo also take one of myself shall let you have them later shall also post a decent one through when I can get out and have it taken you will see no alteration still the same long skinny being perhaps looking a bit older a few more grey hairs strenuous life you know. We are all sitting around a huge fire at present one Canadian officer two Australians one South Africa and 8 English wild discussions, football with slippers, rags on the piano and a general row expect we will all be bundled to bed shortly who cares. Well think I shall turn in after all the excitement lots of love to everyone trust all are well and every thing in the garden lovely. from Bob. Have heard nothing from Nana but think he is all right cannot understand why you do not receive letters from him think he writes all right. Tell Lorna the electric car sounds quite a good effort push it home for all she is worth. Robert James Henderson.
