No. 4 London Gen. Hos. Denmark Hill London.
Author: Robert James Henderson. Date: 18.11.1916.

My dear Mum, So glad to receive your letter dated 24th Sept. addressed direct to Horseferry Rd. it is the first I have had from Australia for about 2 months there must be a terrible lot of my letters around somewhere if I had thought I would have been here so long it would have been much better to send letters direct in fact you and Jane might have come to London what  a good time we could have had but of course I did not expect to be here any longer than  a month It seems certain I shall be at the  hospital for Christmas  the surgeon had a look at my leg last Monday said I was getting a London look about me and wants me to go to the sea side for a couple of weeks so shall probably be sent down to Lady Dudley's convalescent home at Brighton it will be a nice change and they tell me a fine  place each officer has a VAD to himself very nice too depends on the VAD though.
the leg is getting along very slowly but still improving I think it has not healed up yet but I can walk much better although it is still very stiff but expect a couple of weeks massage will fix that. However one is comfortable here to the poor chaps in France whom I often think about. it is very cold here now snow falling lightly at the present moment and alright although in front of a large fire it my feet and hands are cold. Was in Liberty's shop Regent St. a couple of  days ago where I bought a little photo for you something done in enamel hope you receive it they are sending it direct and insurance etc. is paid please let me know if you do not get it for although a very small thing it was very large in other respects. Went and saw Mrs Henley a couple of days ago they are all well she  is talks a lot about Leslie and is keen for every particular it is a terrible blow to her.  This is the first I have heard that you did not receive the cable I sent by Davis wonder why? have cabled to you quite a lot and as each time costs 30/- or so am most annoyed that you do not receive them however one has no redress although receipts are given. Shall cable you when leaving England for France expect some time in January next How did you find out about the money I got from the bank of N.S.W.?  told you in one of my letters but do not think you would have received it by the 24th Sept. I paid the cabling etc through the bank of N S.W. here and at the present rate shall want more shortly it is a lovely place this to spend money should not like to live here under £1,500 per year. Ken Pattrick is in that photo all right he has returned to Australia leaving here about a month ago you might get Jane to ask him home for dinner one evening he will be able to give you lots of interesting news about us all told him to loo ring up Jane the he has six months leave I think. Capt Fine is all right in German hands but have heard nothing of poor Toby Barton or Henderson but I am not surprised afraid the poor chaps must be dead. Meyer & Mr Gorvan have  all also been reported OK in German hands.  afraid B. Pattrick has also gone no news about him to date. Glad you sent me Gordon Inglis' address thought he was at the front will call at Victoria St. and look him up next week. Did not receive a letter from Mrs. Dennis re.  Mr. Osborne's  address. 
Mick as bigger a scamp as ever with the ladies wish he were here with me. he would simply have the time of his life one has to stay in to keep clear of the ladies here they are like so many flies buzzing round one and some girls too believe me. Have been going out with a Scotchman a lots with kilts hence the attraction I suppose but when sick of all the girls we generally blow into the Carlyle Club in Piccadilly where of course you have to be a member and ladies are not admitted Had several letters from girls in London & about this week think they have all lost their heads as fair as the soldiers are concerned have had some very very funny experiences. Tell Dagmar I received her letter dated 12th Sept a couple of days ago and shall reply shortly. shall also write and congratulate Billy Bull wonder where Reg is? Sorry about the leather waistcoat do not expect to get it but no doubt someone who needs it more will at least hope it will not be wasted.  if I get my letters shall be well satisfied No more news at present Merry Christmas & happy New Year to all am ever thinking of you all & Australia generally  lots of love, Bob