c/o "OVERFRONT                                                          
LONDON." THE ROYAL OVERSEAS OFFICERS CLUB, AT THE R.A.C. PALL MALL, LONDON, S.W. REGENT 5000.

Author: Robert James Henderson Date: 17. 3. 1917.

My dear Mum,
My last week end in London for some time I expect and may be my last for good.  Am leaving here on Monday next on my way for general service again and expect to be back with the battalion about the end of this month.  Shall cable on Monday before leaving London so that you will know right away I have left this wonderful city and trust it will not be for good should like to come back again but of course that is a mute point at present.  Have just
together I had quite a rough night with him last night  tonight I want to introduce him to a little girl who has been looking after me here in London for the past 2 months or so and thereby leave him in good hands.  make a transfer as it were.  Have just come back from seeing Humphrey Browning called in at his flat 25 Half Moon St. E. on my way back from the dentist we had a yarn and a couple of shots together he is leaving London on his way back next 
Thursday.  As you will see by the above address this is another club I belong to in London becoming quite hot stuff member of 2 clubs The Carlyle and this one  As you see this is the RAC club which has been thrown open to all overseas officers free of cost as far as membership is concerned it is a most gorgeous place residential a large swimming bath in the basement beautiful dining room smoke room billiard room card room etc etc in fact one of the swank clubs in London with absolutely every convenience if I ever come back to London I shall
certainly stay here this place has only be open to us about a week ago think it is awfully good and very sporting of these pleople to do a thing like this for us dont you?  Have you heard that Harry Murray has received the V.C. it is simply great my company commander what fancy going back to fight with a man who has the V.C. D.S.O and DCM the former two honours being both won in the last six months good luck to him he is a great chap and will
always do me He has charge of A Coy and I do not expect to go back to bombing work especially as before so hope to get back with A Coy and with Murray of course as of yore he will want to do all sorts of mad things and is a devil for fighting still it is good sport working for a with a man like that  Had tea with the Henleys yesterday at the Windsor Hotel they are all very well and busy as usual Millie took me to the office the other day and showed me receipts etc from the 13th there was a whole lot of them Mum so you can rest assured the Batt. is getting all the comforts you are sending through to them. 
Have you heard from Len yet sorry he has not been able to get down and see me but expect he is busy working and no leave is granted for the present have sent a couple of post cards to him but he has not had the decency to answer them yet however expect he is busy chasing some Cambridge lasses around by this the week end I was there it looked easy as in every other part of England and very nice to.
Well my dear we are just going into have a bite of lunch so will have to dry up shall write again soon and tell you about my trip back to France.  lots of love to everyone Boby.