19th September 1915. Zeituon Egypt. Dear Mother. We have arrived at our destination for the present at last. Had a through trip to Suez from Sydney which took 4 weeks less 1 day. In previous correspondence I think I told you about trip as far as Suez. Hence there we took the train to Zeitoun about 70 or 80 miles a 6 hour trip. This run was most interesting right along the Canal for some miles passed a P & O mail boat & several war boats from the train these vessels appear to to being running along the sand. The country for the first ½ of the journey was practically nothing else but desert. but later on the whole country was under cultivation & irrigation. The principal things grown seemed to be dates cotton & corn The different people are most interesting and fascinating Arabs. Greeks. and all sorts. for the most  part they seem to be dirty brutes and they worry. one so much so that you always carry a stick & use same with some language if they will not go away. We arrived at Zeitoun about 7 o clock on Friday night marched into camp about ¼ of mile away. and settled down for the night. There are all sorts of chaps here have seen plenty of fellows I know. 2 Patricks Kirkwood. & others Had a little trouble with the money business Helip los at first but after a trip to Cairo am quite proficient now. and what is more do not think I have been taken in yet which is not bad for they are the biggest lot of rogues in the world here. There are plenty of shops etc in camp. and the boundry is very large Heliopolis for instance is within bounds. so that there is plenty of interesting things & places to see. & plenty of Cafes etc to spend money in. There are plenty of wounded men in camp so have had great descriptions of the fighting etc men coming & going to the front every - day. Every body here have a terrible set on Kitchener's army at the front say they are no good at all in fact the Indians will not fight with them & all say that had there have been enough Australians for th in the first landing things would have been very different there now. Do not know how long we will be here may go away in a week or so they give you 24 hours notice. We get very little news here regarding the war and not. any more reliable than in Australia. Yesterday had a great day in Cairo in was indeed strange & fascinating it would indeed be impossible to describe our wanderings without one was actually there. We went to all the bad places as well as the good but managed to keep sober & not overcome too facinated by the French girls etc. Went to the best hotels & cafes & had a good look round some of the buildings are fine but on the whole it is a dirty place narrow streets plenty of smells xxx stinks & people of every nations Hope to have some several visits there to do museum pyramids etc etc. We did not visit any of the instructive places yesterday but were first out for a good time generally. Sent a cable to father from there but the OC kindly sent one from Suez so suppose you got some word that we were well as soon as it was possible to get same through. The weather here is very hot in day time but quite cool at nights We get up at 5 o'clock and drill from 6 until 9 Breakfast at 9. lecture from 10-45 until 12 o'clock dinner at 12. then more drill from 5 pm until 7 pm tea at 7. then free until 10 o'clock. of course that is if you have no other duties guard, fatigues etc etc we start work seriously tomorrow so will let you know later but from what I can hear discipline is very strict and rigid. which will probably hurt for a little. We wear short half trousers and a shirt boots and putties here which look very cool but believe the sand on the bare knees is not too good of course the whole camp is sand have not yet seen one green place. Will write soon again hope you are all well remberances remembrances & love to all & plenty for your dear self. Boby.