No4 London. Gen. Hospital. Denmark Hill.
Author: Robert James Henderson Date: 13.10.1916.  My dear Mum Sorry to say my leg has turned dog on me swelling etc and if not  careful may require another operation have gone back to the first stages again insertion of tubes, foments etc and confined to hospital again for rest with the unpleasant news that the leg will not be all right again for another 6 weeks or so. Simply rotten luck but expect shall just have to put up with it Have been in since last Monday resting the leg went out for an hour or so yesterday but feel anyhow this morning it is very hard to get about with tubes running right through one's leg and some painful so shall first have to take things easily. Have just received an invitation from Countess Brassey to attend an At House at stunt at her resisdence 24 Park Lane next Tuesday afternoon hope I shall be able to go along think it is specially for Australian officers wounded. it will be a chance of meeting a lot of our chaps and finding out where they are. Mimie Hindmarsh has been here to see me but was out she left her address she is working at the Australian Red Cross. depot in the mornings only it is wonderful how people find you out here I called and saw her yesterday aft morning and when able we are going to have some afternoons out together. Her brother is across here wounded. also. Had a look at Broadway Jones yesterday afternoon the man was not half as clever as Niblo but the girl was very much better than Niblo's wife in my opinion the show here was very excellent it great seeing shows here one has seen in Sydney just to form a comparison still plenty to see here yet they have never had out in Australia there is a great rush on the theatres here and very difficult to get a seat at all it is marvellous where all the people come from Will not be going out again for the next 3 or 4 days now shall have to look after this leg. do not want to be chopped up again of course one gets very fed up of staying in all day especially when things are so fascinating outside. Have just received a parcel do not know whether from Camden or home post mark seemed to say Camden but no mail from Australia the parcel contained a pair of socks and a tin of boiled lollies Thanks very much who ever sent it. Shall write again soon lots of love to all, from Bob.

[*Had photo taken ready tomorrow will send them to you direct from the shop. in London. Have only had one lot of Australian mail but trust for more some day. Robert James Henderson*]