No.4 London General Hospital Denmark Hill London.
Author: Robert James Henderson. Date: 8.11.1916.

My dear Mum, Afraid I am getting slack with my correspondence to other people in Australia but always write to you and I know you pass the news around besides I am receiving no Australian  mail so do not know who I really do owe letters to. There seems little doubt now that I shall be in England this Christmas and no  doubt shall be very lonely by myself unless something turns up. do not know if I shall be clear of the hospital or not yet the leg is just about the same no better no worse however expect one will have a happier time here than in France although it would be good sport being back with the battalion. Am feeling rather tired at present the last three nights not being in until 1 o'clock each morning sounds swish does it not. Have been to the  theatre a good deal Heard the famous tenor Ben Davies a Welshman sing at a Music Hall last Saturday night was rather dissappointed 
enjoyed McCormack much better. Last night went to The proffesors Love Story it was  a great show. H.B. Irving the principal  part and what made it all the nicer we had a free box 9 wounded officers from this ward and the doctor ten in all so you can imagine we had a  jolly evening. All went into the Savoy  Hotel for a drink which was served one  of the chaps gave the waiter £1 for same we were just going out when he remarked about the change which had not come to light. The waiter was taxed and said yes Sir handing back the £1 we all laughed and walked out whether he was insulted at being asked for the change or whether drunk I do not know but it is the  only cheap thing I have had in London to date. Had lunch with the Henly's the  other day. at their hotel St Ermins at St James Park. it was great seeing them again and have an open invitation to go there when I like also met Dr Vicars and Elsie Curish. it is passing strange how one meets different people all over the world. Was standing waiting for a train on Victoria 
station the other day when a charming girl gave me the glad eye I chipped xxxxxxxxx excuse wounded soldier well she invited me to her home at Balham one of the suburbs meet Mother and generally had a good time It was simply great being in a private house again. Have been there on several occasions Mother is most interesting she has travelled all over the world. and always has a bottle of good whiskey on tap she sings grand opera. has a good gramaphone and in fact admit I like Mother better than the daughter Many things are surly done in war time which would seem funny in peace time what do you think. Nearly every afternoon when it is fine I go for a walk in Hyde Park and how interesting it is there plenty of people to see laid ladies riding in Rotten Row motor cars and all the nuts one sees  all sorts of funny things. Well my dear I think that is about all the news at present shall write again soon lots of love to all. Bob.