A. & V Ward No 4 London General Hospital Kings College Denmark Hill London.
 My dear Mum Have not been getting on too well the last few days the wound in my leg has turned septic & gives me fits besides  sending my temperature up to 103 every night which prevents sleep. & it is quite on the cards an operation will have to be performed to allow the irritating  stuff to get away. The sister who dresses me & looks after me hurts like the devil inserting tubes and getting up to all sorts of other duties. I swear at her a treat but have the utmost confidence in her there is no doubt she knows her job and when finished the d each day one is much easier. am also having a lot of red hot foments which give me gipp when they first go on. So you see I would sell out at the present moment very cheaply. However with luck there will be a good time coming when done of this place & sick leave is granted
Wrote to the Commonwealth Bank of Australia London & asked them if they had £50 there for me from Australia telling them I had a cable sent for same last about the end of last June by one of our officers who came to London on leave. They replied telling that to - date nothing had come through but they would notify me when same arrived. I was somewhat surprised but still expect Father did not receive the cable or perhaps was suspicious however as soon as I am convalescent I shall cable again & ask Father to send it through shall want a lot of money here having lost most of my clothes also shall have to get my teeth fixed up 3 pivot teeth fallen out 2 gold fillings as far as I know shall also take a trip to Scotland or Ireland if possible then of course you will understand how one will spend money in this wonderful city living etc Intend to take this opportunity of having a real good holiday my pay book is just about square anyhow the 12/- per day from that will go on hotel expenses. Expect to get about a fortnights leave out of this little lot. Have two 13th officers in the next 2 beds to me Capt Browning & Capt Murray
Browning is having rather a hard time having had an operation on tt his leg with 7 tubes inserted so that he is suffering some pain. Tiny Kell & Wallach have been up to see me a couple of days ago they are both well again and have both gone to Scotland for a week. Then yesterday Ken Pattrick, Major Tevynan Colonel Tilney, Mrs. Brialey, Edna, & her other daughter came in to see me was it was jolly descent of them to come also had letters from Mrs Davies and her daughter Hope  of Liverpool people are very kind & apparently cannot do enough for one. Well dear shall write again soon and let you know how I am getting on Trust you are all well & everything is right at home lots of love from Bob. Nana is all right as far as I know of course have not seen him or heard anything of him since leaving France Saw him last about the 14th  of August he was blooming as per usual. Shall get my photo taken here later & send you the some across to you. 