At Sea. 30.12.1915
Dear Mum We are on our way  to Egypt again. travelling on a boat about 11,000 tons belonging to the Allen line. Suppose you have had all sorts of reports about the evacuation from the peninsular. Everything went off very well. about 140,000 troops being taken away in 2 days & nights without any casualties. The Machine Gun section were about the last to  get off. it was a beautiful  moonlight night & the last night there every section moved away at specified time & embarked. Mr Turk all unconscious of the move was blazing away would like know what he thought when he discovered noone was there. We had great fun setting bayonets tins etc in the ground so that when anyone pulled them out off would go a bomb. Then all sorts of messages were left in  the dugouts wishing the Turks the compliments of the season etc. in all sorts of language. I had about fortnight there it is a dreary place and am glad to get away although it hurt some sneaking away leaving the gear all the graves of the fellows who fell before still suppose it was for the best do not know where we will go next all sorts of rumours about going to London then to France also  fighting on the Suez. Canal. but so long as they leave us  in Egypt for a few days. so that one can have a good feed and clean up I do not mind where we go next. We spent Christmas at Lemnos Island Both Nana & self were thinking about you all at home and discussing what you all would be doing We had a very quiet  day. Our dinner consisted of tea biscuits and cheese. and a pint of beer. On boxing day we received billies from S. Australia they were very nice and appreciated greatly but were sorry we did not receive the ones from our own State goodness knows where they went to. We also received our  parcels the sheep skin vest is a fine one of the best I have seen & the chocolate cigarettes socks soap. etc was greatly appreciated. We  have not received the hampers  from home & the office suppose they are lost or gone to someone else it was indeed nice of Joe Parry & his wife thinking of me and very sorry I did not receive all the nice things which no doubt these hampers would have held. Received letters at Lemnos from home. Mrs Dennis, Billy Bull. & Mrs Bull. will try & answer all. later. Sory to hear that Dad's feet are bad  again hope they will be OK again shortly the surf must have been great at the good  old spot on the peninsular We got about 2 pints of water every 3 days so you can imagine the state we were in. then on the Island things were very little better however hope to get a new rig out on getting to Egypt again. Tell Dot old W.A. went away sick from the peninsular with cancer in the 
ear or some such thing do know where he is but will. not be back with the company for some time yet. no more news at present will write soon again love to all. Bob. Nana & self in the best  of health feeling very fit.