Author: Robert James Henderson.

Regiment: 13TH BATTALION A.I.F.
 Location: FRANCE. 
Date: 19th March 1918,
 My dear Jane, Thanks ever so much for the very nice parcel from home which arrived yesterday your card was dated 14th Dec so that it took some time to reach me its contents were OK and all intact. On the same day everyone in the Battn received a parcel from the comforts fund you know those in the cardboard boxes all of which were very much appreciated
by all. We had a great Rugby foot ball match against the 15th. Battn last Saturday which was hard and fast the two blues won so that next Saturday we again play them for  the final of the Brigade competition and we expect to have another cup to our credit we also play the  16th tomorrow for the final in association game and have no doubt we shall grab that cup to then there is some more boxing to come off also some rifle matches all of which I like ourselves for this N.S.W. Battn takes some beating at any old thing believe me. Look out for our photos in some of the papers Anzac Bulletin etc the official photographer took us all a few days ago but which papers they
will be reproduced in I cannot say. Had a great day out last Sunday The Dag (Doc Wallack) the Doc (Major Craig Melbourat swan) & self; we squared the C.O to allow us off church parade set out on our horses about 10 am and had a regular round trip completing in all about 40 miles visited several new towns of some size where I had not been before unfortunately I cannot mention the names of them or say much about them on account of censorship regulations we had plenty of good fun with the French lasses good food good champagne and all the rest of it ended up by calling in to see Humph. Browning who is doing splendidly now I am happy to say and is out of danger although he will probably get a trip home if he wants it. Had some great fun last night came in about 9-30 P M after teaching the boys to do wiring in the dark with gas masks on etc and sat down to our  supper we have something every night in our billet last night stewed rabbit potatoes cocoa & whiskey very nice to having supped well and got my orders out for to-day turned in to read some papers Hope's effort Tattler London Opinion Passing Show Bystander etc. Well I was nicely tucked in with a nice clean pair of pymjas the inevitable pernicious weed in the mouth when in walked one of our officers dressed in womans clothes in company with a French girl or Belgian rather dressed in his uniform my word she looked fine also our chap did up splendidly of course they dragged me out of bed put an overcoat on a pair of top boots we all then went around and visited all the wounded officers it was splendid fun of course it meant a wad at each place also you should have seen the parde's face when we went in to his room be being well and truly in but afraid he was terribly shocked it was a great shock joke no wonder is it that he tells us we are  much too bad to win the war or for it to finish for a  long while yet. My Jane you  should have seen the lass dressed  up in the officers uniform She was some kid. I arrived back to my billet at 1-30 am and  had just got off to sleep when the Hun started shelling the place with big stuff the  bed walls floor etc shook with the vibration and things were very hot  this went on for about 2 hrs fortunately there was very little damage done most of the  shells falling in fields close by  still I was most annoyed at having my slumbers broken Still it is raining like the devil to-day and we cannot do very much which is rather a good thing.  shall have a chance of bringing my mail up to date. We are still out of the line but expect to go in again about the end of the month after which I hope to get my leave  afraid there is little chance of getting away before however one never knows. Have not seen Nana for a long time he is away at a sh school but think he is due back any day now with his unit shall try and look him up at the first opportunity. Well my dear must dry up afraid if all my letters are as long as this one I shall never get through of course one see lots of things and does lots of things which are would be most interesting to hear about but of course one can say next to nothing about them and the trouble is if a fellow is lucky enough to get back again he will have forgotten so much Give my best love to everyone Jane nearly 3 years away now am commencing to think I was born bred and planted on this side of the world now however it
will always do me marching up Pitt St on the way home what does Australia look like Sydney eh where is it that is the place with a beautiful harbour attached is it not  fancy I have slight recollections of Watsons Bay Manly etc etc. never mind we will make things hum when we see them all again Cheer. Oh for the present,  Bob.