Zeitoun 12.3.1916
My dear Mum.
Have just completed  a week here in the officers  class School of Instruction We  have had two Examinations  one oral in musketry and a  written paper on the weeks  lectures I scored 94 marks  out of 100 in the musketry  the results of the written paper  are not out yet but think  I did pretty well. It is  very hard work here and  one feels it greatly having  to buck in and study  hard all day and the  best part of the night  there is a tremendous  amount of work to get through in 3 weeks we have 3  written papers 3 oral exams  in musketry and 2 drill  exams one in company drill  and 1 in battalion drill  besides a note book to  write up. Then we have other  subjects such baynot bayonet  fighting, Mekometer periscope  etc in fact the whole thing  is gone into in tl a very  limited time We get up  at 5.30 am every morning  except Sunday of course when  you can do just as you  please and go hard until  about 11 o'clock each night   Still things are very nice  here in the officers class   They are all 2nd. Lieutenants  who have received their promotions in field and are  sent here for instruction  and about a dozen of us  who are candidates for  commissions We have a fine  mess and the food excellent  also a great reading and  writing room in which is a  fine bar then we have huts  to sleep in with a batman  to clean your boots make  your bed and generally  look after you So you see  this chicken is commencing  to swank and put on  dog once more and if it  was not for the hard  work one would have a  royal time However we have  our week ends free so intend  to make the best of them  provided the money comes along I sent for. Am pretty  broke again am also overdrawn  in my pay book of course  I had to buy decent clothes  and large mess accounts etc  here took all my spare  cash about £7 I cabled  to Father for £35 last Saturday  and up to Wednesday it  had not arrived I have not  had an opportunity of getting  to Cairo since to find out  if same has come but wrote  the manager asking him  to let me know. when  the money arrived  Of  course when our Commissions  come through we get an  allowance of £15 for clothes  etc but in the meantime  you must have some money to go on with. Last night I was sitting in the smoking room after dinner having a yarn with an English officer and about 10 o'clock 2 officers came in and sat down with us one a Scotchman and the other a Welshman they were both pretty tight and would insist on buying drinks all around about 6 times then we had talks about the All Blacks and Welshmen the Scot. would say that the Welsh could not play football etc it was most enjoyable to me and one could not help laughing at the quaint expressions etc Do not know what time they turned in I left about midnight and went to bed they were still going strong then It is great fun here for me to see and hear all the swank some of these fellows go on with they are simply great. No mail is allowed to go out for the next 3 weeks now. So some big moves must be taking place shortly now. However expect you will get these letters some time and of course I shall not receive any mail while I am here but Nana is looking after same for me at Tel-el-kebir. We all expect to get a move on shortly to France I hope but of course no one knows. Trusting every thing is OK lots of love Boby