Author: Robert James Henderson

Location: France
 Date: 26. 10. 1917
 My dear Jane, Received 4 letters last night one from you, Mum, Dags & Lorna all about the first week Sept. Of course you all said many nice things about me I have quite a swollen head after reading them. Thanks muchly Jane for  the parcel you sent along biscuits sugar tobacco etc everything was very nice you might cut out the sugar though we have plenty in France and the army has no difficulty in obtaining plenty It is in London & the civil population who cannot get it. While on leave in England
had my photo taken with Hope Davies for a joke you know 3 for 5/- effort She sent me one along & wants to know if she sends one home if anyone will be jealous I assured her about that and told her I should be pleased if she would let you have one they are not bad quite a good one of Hope she is very good sends papers etc over regularly of course there is nothing doing although I have lots of fun with these girls said she was going to write to Mum & say I was a very bad boy but a dear we have not got much money Jane but we have a good  time when the opportunity presents itself Well we have just been through another
show and had a fairly rough time. Am feeling any old how  got rather a  rough time from gas no voice blistered etc etc may have to go away yet. However we are on our way back for a good long rest now which is badly needed by us all hope to have Xmas out of the line but it is hard to say. Have not seen Len for some time ran into the 45th yesterday but he was away at some sniping school so missed him hope to see him again soon he is all right & was not in this  last show. It is very wet and muddy and getting damned cold over here now so suppose a few rough months are ahead of us.
Tickled to death about Eileen O'Brien a cutting from the Bulletin was sent to me from England about it shall enclose it although you probably have  seen it. Am just off on the horse for a bath which is muchly needed shall write again soon when we settle down again lots of love to all. Bob