Author: Robert James Henderson.

Location: France
  Date: 14.11.1917,
  My dear Mum,  Have just received 8 letters from Australia  2 from you 17th & 27th Sept.  2 from Lorna 27th & 24th Sept 1 from  Mick 12th Sept 1 from Jane 24thSept 1 from Dag 25thSept 1 from Lucy  24th Sept and all very nice they were the first Aust. mail  received for about a month. it was great getting all the   news. It is rotten three boats going down may have given  you all sorts of interesting news in the letters that are  lost ones letter writing is very patchy these days however  it cannot be helped. Received the parcel ok with socks  tobacco the tobacco was very acceptable also received a parcel  from Elsie Henley with socks skull cap & pipe also one from  Hope Davies containing 300 cigarettes she also sends me a large  bundle of English papers each week Times Tattler London Opinion  Passing Show Sketch etc it is great getting all these papers  although I tell her not to be spending all her money on  me etc  Glad to hear Ralf Kell returned safely he will be  able to give you all sorts of interesting news about  everything and everybody. If still going in another six  months or so am thinking of applying for a trip  home myself am well fed up of all this the trouble  is to get a decent excuse weak heart only b eldest  boy in family Pere Parents ill or what shall I say  am not feeling too good and believe the trick might   be worked without screw of course however shall think  the matter over. Had a great night at Bridge last  night Hamish Browning & self playing Des Wallack & the   Doc we could not go wrong ended up winning 30   francs at 1 franc per 100 rate of exchange at present  is 5 francs = 3s/8d This afternoon we play the second  competition football game against the 15th Battn if we
can win we consider the Cup ours they are a Queensland  battalion & of course are pretty hot stuff. We  have a sweep worth 150 francs going in the mess  I am also looking for a 50 franc bet with any  of the 15th officers we have an excellent team  and expect to win it should be a great match  and excitement is sure to be at fever pitch with  about 4 battalions barracking etc. Last Sunday afternoon  Capt Wallack (Dos)  Capt Kellaway M.C.(dada the Doc) &   myself rode to a decent little town about 8 miles  from here. Dada said at dinner on Sunday get  your horse and come for a ride I will introduce you   to a nice little French lass of course that always   did me so Dos & self went along had a real  good dinner several bottles of champagne with the  lass & finally cut the Doc out it was great  fun we had a very lively afternoon galloped all  the way home how we stuck on the horses search  me came back to the mess and of course had to  tell them all about the afternoon the Doc sneeked  up to bed the champagne effects no doubt so the   Colonel Major Murray Dos & self went up and pulled  him out of bed roars of delight from him. we   have some great fun at times. One of our officers  saw Nana a couple of days ago he was returning   to his Battn from a school looking well &  quite OK. We are moving further back very  shortly now all sorts of rumours about a good spell 
but do not know quite what will happen yet  if so it will be very nice in lots of ways  and of course very rotten in others ways  It might be hard for you to understand but  actually fighting and being in the front area  has compensations. These set camps back are  very regimental worrying and boring, but of   course same old story one is never satisfied  Tell Mick I am becoming quite a lawyer these  days taking Summary of Evidences sitting on   Field General Court Martials, Boards of Enquiry,  etc  etc  have to read up rules of procedure  Military Law etc etc damned boring it is to   but all good experience Tell Lorna she is too  lucky about the gas we get it any old  time here beastly stuff it is too am still   suffering from the effects of it. Glad to  hear the strike is over and the Government  held out Australia will always be noted for  its strikes I am afraid. Did not interview Cousin  George while in London last the Investiture was  full up and I could not wait for the next however  hope to get another opportunity. NO more news at  present lots of love to all, Bob.