Location: Perham Downs, England. 

Author: Robert James Henderson. 
Date: 8.4.1917   My dear Mum,  Received your letter dated 28th Jan  a couple of days ago also newspaper cuttings  re Fathers' retirement was very pleased to get  them. Father was properly in the boom but  reckon they could not say too many nice  things about him quite a good touch about  making his scotch nature blush I thought.  Glad you received the goods all right from  Liberties London tell Mick he is all wrong  it was an effort all by myself. Cabled   through from London on 19th of last month  saying I was leaving for France suppose  you received it all right. Have been warned  in last nights orders here to hold myself  in readiness to proceed overseas at an  early date so expect to get away any  day now for the front shall probably  have to put a few days in at our  base & at Etaples en route to the  battalion. Could easily get a job here  Mum but want to get back to  the battalion am feeling pretty right again 
the mouth is not quite better yet but  hope it will be very soon now. Met  Colonel Durrant in London last Sunday  where I was on my way back here  from France says he is keeping a  place for me in A Coy with Capt  Murray who is V.C. D.S.O  D.C.M. fancy  going back to fight with a man like  that it will always do me he is a  bosca chap. Think the leg is quite all  right again now although I have done  no heavy work with it yet do not   anticipate any trouble though the leather  waistcoat is quite all right and  has been very handy in this cold  bleak spot. Ted Cornish also Major Howden  of the 45th are here also Capt. Mosely of the  13th he has just returned from Australia;  going there from Gallipoli Toby Barton's  brother who was a corporal of the 45th  has just received his commission having  gone through a school at Oxford similar  to the one Len is going through he is  also here waiting to get back. Have been  playing a whole of bridge here 
but about the only thing to do to fill  in time. Had a letter from Nana a few  days ago he is having 5 days or so now  Easter holidays in London wanted to know  if I could get up there but unfortunately  I could not work it still he is sure  to have a great time although now  restrictions exist re meals, drinks places  out of bounds such as Ciro's and other night  clubs the Savoy Hotel ball room etc which  did not when I was first out kicking  around. Well my dear no more news at present  expect you will not get so many letters  from me now as I hope to be hard  at it again shortly and of course  shall always be very tired and busy  lots of love to everyone, Boby.