Serapeum 30.3.1916 My dear Mum Once more on the desert about 100 miles from no-where and the weather becoming as hot as the devil do not expect to be  here very much longer perhaps 3 weeks or a month then we all hope on to France Have finished up at the school but do not know the final results up till last Saturday morning I had when we had the last paper I had a total % of 92 which was not too bad for me certificate with final result will come through later. I cabled on Saturday that my commission had come through from the 16th March so that I am now one of three beastly officers 2/Lieut and have started work again with the battalion being attached to A Company 13th Batt with Captain Barton in command of same it is great having people you know well like that Expect you have heard that Leslie Henley is now a Captain quite hot stuff Len came up to see me last night having just completed a 40 mile march to this spot where all the battalions marched to from Tel-el-Kebir he was very fit and OK but had not received any letters for the last 3 weeks or so and of course I have had none either. There may be some here for me but everything is upside down at present so have not inquired yet. After leaving the school I had a great fly around until Wednesday left Cairo at 11 o'clock last Sunday for Tel-el-Kebir to pick up the battalion on arriving there they had left early that morning on the march. so decided I would not chase them on same so left that night for Alexandria arriving there at 5.20 am Monday morning went to a swank hotel the Regina Palace where I ran into Mr Henley. Had a long talk to him and a great fly around Alexs it is a great place situated right on the water and very pretty I like it much better than Cairo & bye the bye tell Jane I sent her a belt buckle from there which I  hope she receives all right We arrived back at the  Hotel at 2 am on Tuesday morning and caught the 9 o clock train to Cairo the same day reaching there at noon then  went on to the Continental Hotel where I met the rest of the Henley family I was jolly glad to see them all they are having the time of their life the girls enjoying everything immensely Had quite a good evening in Cairo & left there 7 am Wednesday morning arriving here about 5 o'clock the same day. Tell Mick I have now altered my allotment to 6/- per day which should go into my a/c NSW Annandale You might also let Mr Donoghue of the Electric Light Coy. know that I have received a  commission which of course carries extra pay which I suppose will cancel any payment from the office I shall write to him but he might not get the letter then might be inclined to think that I was coming on the double Think I mentioned in my last letter that I  received the ₤35 pounds all right and it has been most useful of course I spent it all but have had the time of my life and expect I shall not get any more leave for some considerable time. Trusting you are all well at home and everything oK. shall write again soon. best love to all. Bob. 
Enclosing Post card Photos of Officers class at the school Zeitoun