Regiment: 13TH BATTALION, A.I.F. 
Author: Robert James Henderson.

Location: FRANCE,
 Date: 27.1.1918,
 My dear Jane, Have just received your letter dated 25th Nov. also a card from Mrs S. J. Bull & family while in my little dug-out in the front line. Had a bit of fun last night the heads being very keen to get a Fritz for identification purposes on this front of course the competition was keen especially as there is a special 14 days leave hanging to it One of my Corporals while out on patrol had the luck to shoot one & of course brought back his coat containing papers pay book etc etc it was most interesting going through all his stuff which I have no doubt shall be of the greatest
value to Div. Corp etc such things that were no use to us such as 2 mark notes etc were given back to the Corporal the regiment he belonged to had apparently just come from the Russian front for he had several photos of Germans & Russians fratenizing what do you think of that. Of course another feather in the Battn cap getting this information etc without an organized raid which was in hand. great fun these little stunts although risky. So Mrs Davies has been saying all sorts of nice things about me eh of course she could hardly do otherwise to be polite could she Yes I knew all about Teddie Cornish he has now transfered to the Flying Corp and no doubt will 
do very well he is a great kid Glad to hear Les Scott has got the M.C. missed Nana again when he was going out and I was coming in Saw some of his officers who assured me he was quite all right and going strong Great fun about Mum & Bill Tulton sounds very bad however the Tommy Corkers will be most acceptable they are most useful here in this cold hole where no food etc can come to us in the day and no light to be shown at night. Glad Mum received 
the invoice from Libertys expect the parcel will arrive OK. Well my dear I must get out of this darned dug - out can hardly move Shall have a look around the line & see that all is OK lots of love to all, Bob. 