Author: Robert James Henderson

Location: France.
 Date: 27.5.1917.
 My dear Lorna, Have just written to Mick and intended that it should do for all the family but on reading through your letter dated 31. 3.17 think I might be a sport and drop you a line Tell Mum not to worry about the leg it is as good as gold again and have not felt it the slightest bit in fact have forgotten it was even bad they made a real tip top job of it across the other side of course 3 fair sized scars  where the incisions were made will stay for good but will only been seen by specially priviledged persons. Glad to hear Mum saw the photo taken in Scotland by Mrs Purvis-Montgomery I have not seen it yet and sorry I have not one to send home however if one comes along she shall have it. Fancy Luce & Geoff fixing things at last am very pleased to hear it shall write to Lucy and pu try to pull her leg a treat. received a letter from her dated 14th March but expect things were not fixed at that date. Jack seems to be having a nice little turn around there is nothing like it hope the kid soon gets all right again and that you are able to get Robbos cottage Am sorry to hear that the pony & trap have been sold still it was no use when no one used it I think £33.10 a splendid price for turnout. although I thin also think the buyer got his money's worth. Shall have to get a car when we come home or shall we bring one across from this side? Surprised to hear of you people being scared of a single raider in the Indian Ocean that is a mere detail besides a few ships being sunk is nothing to the tonnage daily going to the bottom of the sea over 
here. I see the old llkl ship I came across from Alexandria to France in has just been suck and sorry to say many lives lost. have also just heard that 23 of the enemy air ship raided Folkestone (England) last Thursday to some effect but have no details to date Tell Jane Capt Howden who is now a Major is a bosca block he went to Gallipoli a corporal in the 4th rgts 13th Battn now a Major M.C. and a bar to same so has done splendidly he is a dentist in one of the country towns of N.S.W. Saw Jack Edgely yesterday but could not speak to him we were marching past Gen. Godley being inspected by him I did the next best thing winked at him (Jack Edgely) Well my dear will have to shut up time very precious gave Mick most of the news love to the kid Jack & yourself, Bob.