A & V Ward No 4 General Hospital Kings College Denmark Hill London.
Author: Robert James Henderson. Date: 21. 9. 1916.  My dear Mum Have just received the enclosed  letter and card from Colonel Durrant  who commands the 13th Battalion Of  course I do not deserve all this  rubbish and shall hav be getting a  swelled head if this sort of thing  goes on.  This is the second one of these  cards I have sent to you but I  am indeed honoured by receiving Colonel  Durrants letter which I value more  than all the cards or decorations known. We are indeed lucky in having such  good men for commanding officers Our late  Col commanding officer Col.  Tilvey was simply fine but unfortunately  on account of ill health he has had  to come to England for a spell and  am afraid is finished as far as active service is concerned. His He  has been twice here to see me  and has also arranged for me  to go to some of his friends  in Scotland for some shooting  when well enough. This is characteristic  of the man. Then Colonel Durrant who  has taken over the battalion was is  an old 13th man but has been  brigade Major for some time past  yer In that capacity we all had a good deal to do with him and I  get on very well with him he is an  exceptionally fine young man and an  excellent soldier.  It is simply great having  these sort of men to work for you will probably have met his wife who is  a keen worker for the Comforts Fund. Had such a nice note from Millie  Henley a couple of days ago they are  indeed good having invited me as  their guest to the Grand Hotel  Plymouth for as long as I like. I shall make a point of going  down & staying a few days with them Of course they all feel their loss keenly but are very brave & try to  be as cheerful as possible.  I have  all sorts of invitations to go and  see people all over England in fact  do not know how I shall manage  with a limited amount of time at  my disposal Then you know one will have to tear ones self away  from this bit of a town called  London it is some place according  to all accounts.  The old leg is getting  on finely now  it is just a week  sin to-day since the operation was  performed and in a couple more days  hope to get up on a wheeled chair The little girl who dresses my leg is  simply wonderful and although she has  hurt me like the devil she is very  thorough and of competent and I give  her all the credit for saving my  limb.  The worst is over now tubes etc  being much smaller & shorter.  Expect I  shall not receive any mail from home  for months now but still that cannot  be helped. Trust everything is OK. lots of love to all, Bob.