No 4  London Gen Hos. Denmark Hill, London.

Author: Robert James Henderson Date: December 18th, 1916.

My dear Lorna, Of. course you see all the letters I write home and thereby get all the news. so I know you do not mind my not answering all your letters wrote to Mick couple of days ago and gave him all the news so shall try and not repeat my self when writing these few lines to you. Received your letters dated 27/8/16. 3/10/16 20/8/16. a few day ago amongst a bunch of so others from Australia you can imagine my excitement and pleasure at hearing all the Australian news. In a parcel from home received the tobacco you and Jack sent thank you both muchly of it is great getting something decent to smoke for one cannot buy decent tobacco in this town. As I mentioned in my last letters home am having the time of my life here still am commencing to get in with quite 
the best people in London. Go out to the Hon Mrs Edwardes quite a lot and of course meet all the swank. Went there for tea and supper yesterday after which we all went on to the Sly's (Sly & Russell) cr crowd where we spent the rest of the evening playing whisky poker, dancing, yarning with plenty of whisky & soda on tap etc. At Mrs Edwardes we had music then all got to the piano and sang popular songs something after our style at home Lady Someone playing forgotten the name had a long talk to Lady Birdwood and her daughter Nancy they are both very charming  Have an open invitation to go to this place at any time for any meal etc etc it is beautifully free to smoke where you like do what you like and so homely. The dance last Saturday was most successful. The hostess a very charming woman Lady Moyra Cavendish beautiful large ball room and of course every thing very swank met Lieut Sly. Mrs Sly. Sedric Cohen Jack Mills Mrs Mills John Cowdery Billy Cowper and his wife (late Helen Nott) and of course all the best people in London believe me kid am having some time getting asked to all these places meeting all these people who are most interesting which of course would have been impossible under ordinary circumstances. Next Tuesday two invitations one to the Palace the other to Countess Brassey's have accepted the latter all sorts of nice invitations for Christmas Eve & Christmas Day but have had to decline on account of going to Liverpool for Xmas week end the trouble of the thing is one cannot go every where which is rather unfortunate. Next Wednesday I promised to go to Mrs Edwards again  the Sister has just informed me we must all stay in the ward on that day as some lady is having a Christmas tree with presents for all the officers music etc do not know what to do it is terrible being so rushed dont you think so. The old leg is quite healed now and am just waiting for the massage doctor now who I suppose will start that treatment right away it is lovely to get the use of ones leg again being able to walk again decently and after some massage will be quite all right again shall probably be kicking about England until the end of January so after all have been lucky having had of such a good spell and missing half the winter in France of course my first 2 months here were any thing but pleasant still am making up for that bad time now. Have started to go to the dentist at last have a lot to be done to my teeth and hate wasting my time and money on this stunt still it must be done. The weather here has been very rotten lately heavy & thick fogs all day and night they certainly are unpleasant and inconvenient I get properly lost in them but manage to get where I wish to eventually. Well dear shall dry up for the present lots of love and a kiss for the kid  trust 1917 Xmas shall see us all together again who knows. Bob. Wish you would write plainly to  or get a decent name for your house I can never remember it nor spell it  I know the one I have written is wrong but of course have no doubt it will get there all the same. 