Moascar. 12.2.1916 My dear Mum Have very little news for you all we are still in the same spot working very hard in the desert all day marches and at times all night. Last week has been a little easier Yesterday afternoon we had a swimming parade to the lake which is about 2 miles from here the water was on the cold side but very enjoyable There were some cheeky nigger boys on the beach who also in our opinion charged too much for their oranges so we picked them up with their oranges and threw them into the water
this caused all sorts of fun for us but of course they could not see the joke. Have just been talking to Nana he has been on guard all night and was in bed. Les. Henley told him he expects his Mother & sister to pass through here tomorrow on their way to Alexandria he has obtained leave to be with them for some time. which will be great for him. An Australian mail has come in but did not get any letters or papers. Saw Telegraph dated January 1st which contained some rather interesting accounts of the evacuation from the peninsular a few lit things not quite correct but on the whole a good account. 
No doubt you were all very much surprised. Personally I think it was a very good thing for had we remained there 10 years I do not think the Turks would have been pushed back to any extent or defeated. If we do not get any fighting here we all expect to go to Flanders shortly where no doubt this summer every body will get as much. fighting as they like. Have just read a book entitled called. “All for a Scap of Paper” by Joseph Hocking it is very interesting all about this war in France tell Jane to get it from the library We are getting lovely weather  here at present fairly warm in the day time but very cold at night the old sheepskin vest comes in very handy for sleeping  in. they do keep one very warm Do not think I told you our war cry. it goes like this Ah ah ah ah he Machine Gun Section are we We fire that fast that the opposition cant last. Ah ah ah ah ah he.  the word opposition is for the ladies sake we of course use a much stronger one Mick no doubt could think  of the correct one but do not ask him to express it, If I remember aright it  is somebody’s birthday this month yours Mother & Lorna’s is it not? a bit late but wish you both very many happy returns and trust I shall be back among you this time next year. You never know your luck. lots of love to all the Drummoyne people & plenty for yourselves Nana & self in the best of health & spirit Bob