The Carlyle Club 211, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.


Author: Robert James Henderson Date: 6th March 1917.
 My dear Mum Am dying to have some letters  from home have not had any for some weeks now but expect they are all going to the battalion now and the delay of course will be great   Have another 6 days leave to go but am not too good am having a lot of trouble with my mouth swollen & very sore gums ulsers in the mouth etc can hardly eat and it is very painful am going to the dentist who is treating me says my mouth is in a very bad way and reckons he will want at least an extra week to fix me up   is going to give me a letter to our medical people for an extension of leave do not know what will happen   says if I go back to 
France with my mouth as it is it will be a very short time before I am in hospital again and there they will want to take out all my teeth of course guess I shall have a say in the matter however want to get the trouble fixed up here first if possible   it is very rotten and very prevalent in England at present   as far as I can see it is simply a septic mouth most horrible thing however trust this dentist will fix me up shortly Went for a run down to Richmond last Sunday afternoon enjoyed the trip immensely it must be great down there in the summer time being right on the river plenty of boating etc and very pretty of course the weather here at present is all against that sort of thing at 11 o'clock on Sunday night it was snowing in London and well I know it as I had to see a lady home and could not get a Taxi so that this 
chicken was out in it until quite late   was about 12.45 before I got back to the hotel. Went to a great dance last Saturday afternoon given by Australian & S.African officers at the residence of the pot who is going to Tasmania as a Governor shortly forgotten his name for the present There were about 250 present a beautiful large  ball room and excellent music the whole show went off Tip Top one of the best I have been to had a dance yesterday afternoon also Another one this afternoon so that I am still going strong am becoming quite hot stuff at the Fox Trot there 
days  Have been kicking round quite a  lot with Ralf Kell who is pretty right again now he seems lucky enough to get a nice chis little one each time which does not cause him a great deal of inconvenience.  I wonder if you have heard from Nana yet  am sure you will be glad to hear all the news from him
it should be most interesting to you all. hope he will be able to get down and see me but have not heard from him for about a week. Guess he is all right and having a good time. Am off to the theatre  to-night and having a good fly around generally for my last few days here am looking forward more or less to getting back to some hard and regular work again think it will  do me a power of good after living the gay life for so long. Best love to all. Bobbie as you say Mum.