Serapium 30.3.1916.  My dear Lorna Expect you have  been down to Austimer and had a bonza time as per usual. Where we are at present is OK for swimming about a mile or so from the canal we have a swimming parade about every two days it is simply great the water beautifully fresh and clean and if a P & O or Orient boat is going through the lads swim out to them & get cigarettes etc also lots of good wishes from the passagers passengers of course the stipulation is that when one of these boats passes we must all keep under water. Yesterday afternoon I swam across to the opposite shore a viewed the scene from  there there were about 2000 in the water stretched right along the bank. and but for the surf was excatly like manly or Bondi. being near the canal is the only redeeming feature about this place which seems to be in the middle  of the desert hundreds of miles from no where. it is becoming very dusty and darned hot so that we shall all be glad when we get a move on to France that is if we go there which seems likely. 
Am doting on the thought ofof possibly getting a trip to England for according to  reports from fellows that  have returned they have the time of their lives there. Have just completed a course of 3  n infantry training in the officers class at the School of Instruction Zeitoun I did very well having over 90% with one paper not corrected will get the final result later. When I arrived back at Tel-el-Kebir found the battalion had just left on a 40 miles march to this place of course I was sorry? so did decided to have 3 more days off to allow them to arrive at their destination and settle down. In the meantime I cleared off to Alexandria had a  ripping fly around so good in fact that I did not have time to go to bed. Met Mr Henley there and had  a long yarn with him stayed at the same hotel & when leaving he loaded me up with all sorts of things billies tobacco cigars etc etc. jolly decent of him especially as I had 3 other friends with me still he loaded them up also Only spent one day & night in Alex's then went on to Cairo put up at the Continental Hotel which is very swank while there I ran into Mrs Henley and the girls it was boska meeting them and having a long talk about everything in general they are going to write home to Mum and tell her what a bad boy I am etc. Stayed in Cairo one day and night then picked up the battalion and having started work again Last few days have had the time of my life in Alex and Cairo spending about ₤50 in the last few days will leave to you to imagine what time sort of a time I have had. Of course being an officer now 2/Lieut I have been able to do anything I liked stay at the swank hotels stay out all night etc. no picquets etc to  worry about. I have left. the gun section now and am attached to A company 13th Batt. with Capt Barton as the company commander which is great for me knowing him so well. Leslie Henley is a captain now very hot stuff is he not. he is very well & is 2nd in command B company Nana just arrived down yesterday with the 45th Batt having marched from Tel-el-Kebir a distance of 40 miles he was OK. & very fit they are camped about ¼ of a mile from us he came across to see me he thought I would have some mail & I thought he would have some instead great was the disappointment when neither of us had any. However there may be something here for me shall inquire when they get settled properly in this spot Plenty of love for the kid, Jack, & yourself. & hope this damed war will soon be over so that a man will be able to get home & see you all. again Love from Bob.