No. 4 London Gen Hos. Denmark Hill, London.

Author: Robert James Henderson
Date: 14.12.1916.
 My dear Mum, Received a lovely large parcel yesterday (which was my birthday) containing pipe tooth brush cigarettes ginger chocolates pad asparagus cards handkerchiefs also socks from Llewella give her a kiss from me and tell her I think her a clever little girl to knit so neatly and nicely shall g keep them for the cold weather in France also a tin of descent tobacco from Lorna & Jack thank them very much for me one cannot buy decent tobacco in London only these rotten English mixtures. of course I am rather  sorry receiving all these nice things while living in London with all the comforts here would sooner they kept these nice things for some of the fellows in the battalion however that is not allowable Wrote to  Mick a little time ago really forgotten what I said so you will have to forgive repetitions 
If they occur Have been living quite the  gay life lately among all the "Knuts" meeting all the best people in London  A Lady the Hon Mrs Edwards has been very kind to me having been there to lunch once and three "At "Home" Stunts" she also has several invitations for me when I am ready to go to the country homes of the very best people Am going there for tea next Sunday also staying for supper then on to the Sly's place for a little dance. Meet Lady Birdwood there yesterday afternoon she is very  charming but not more so than the General he is a great man and well liked by all also met John Cowdery who has his commission now also John Mills meet also a charming lot of English girls  Last Monday was at an "At Home" stunt given by Miss Jonson which I enjoyed am going to a small dance given at Lady Cavendish's residence next Saturday and next Tuesday an "At Home" stunt at Countess Brassey's residence so you see am doing the heavy at present and meeting all the best people in England it is very nice and most interesting saw the list of people who are going to the dance on Saturday 
Lady this & Lady that terribly swank can never remember their names still notwithstanding I have not a swool swollen head they are very ordinary all these people and all are particularly nice and homely  of course they have plenty of money fine houses with cars butlers servants galore etc but find them particularly nice with it all. In the  midst of this letter the Sister has just come and given me two complimentary tickets for Hobsons Choice at the Prince of Wales Theatre 2nd row in the front stalls tonight I have seen the show but do not mind having another look at it. She is a great sport and seems to dote on me which of course is very nice too. Have been to nearly every theatre in London so have not been going just lately went last week to the Bing Boys a Revue they are mad on it over here and well they might be the music very gay and catchy and altogether a tip top show. Have an invitation to go to some Dukes residence for the the New Year week end forgotten his name but could not accept as I shall not be back from Liverpool where I am going for Xmas week. Met a lady at Miss Jonsons the other afternoon who lived in Australia a long time knew Moss Vale very well, Grandfather Ballgerys and all those people you used to talk about cant for the life of me tell you her name. you would be sure to know her she seemed rather interested when I told her RPR was my grandfather I find it very hard to remember names when you meet a lot of people together in a room especially when  some are titled and others not frightened I might make a bill bull so never mention the x name. The leg is simply splendid now causing me very little inconvenience now it is a treat after about 3 months soreness and stiffness more or less. Asked the Sister when I should be ready to get out of hospital she said not  until the end of January will need a lot of massage to make it quite well again for marching etc etc still it feels OK just a tiny bit of stiffness and quite healed now however I shall not argue the point an extra month is better here at this time of the year than in France. Well my dear lots of love to everyone and plenty for your dear self,  Bob