Wigram Ward. No 4 London Gen Hos. Denmark Hill

Author: Robert James Henderson. Date: 12.2.1917.
 My dear Mum, Have just returned from Cambridge  where I spent the week end with Nana Was indeed surprised, excited, and pleased  to receive a note from him on Saturday  morning last saying he was going through  an Officers Training Course at St. Johns College  Cambridge and if I was still in London  would be glad to see me or hear from  me. I went up to Cambridge that afternoon  and saw him he looks simply splendid  and is very lucky getting over here on this  stunt there were only about 8 chaps picked  out of each division for this school which  lasts 4 months so that he will have a  good rest with some comfort which he  richly deserves. I had a look over the  college it is fine it is one of the  colleges in connection with Cambridge University 
so that his life will be just like a  University student at college they have their rooms, dining room etc  just as  a boarding school Lee Scott is in the  same room as him also a chap named  Cros from Bega so that they will have a fine time. I stayed at the Pub  in Cambridge for the night and gave  the boys a good time made them come  and have meals with me etc of course  they are all broke being unable to get   any money yet gave Nana what I could  spare which is not much as I am  getting short myself now he has written  to the Commonwealth Bank about the  £40 there I hope he gets it all right  however he will want a lot more than  that eventually so advised him to get  the Bank of N.S.W. to transfer some  of his money across here for him.   How pleased Mum you will be to know  Nana is safe and comfortable over here  for at least another 5 or 6 months the  time he gets through the course hangs  around waiting for his commission to come 
through etc  it will be all that time trust  he will never have to go across again surely  this show will be nearly over in six months  time I sincerely trust so. Nana is cabling  to-day his address to Father at the  Bank expect they will forward it on to  you should love to see your face when  you hear the news he will write and  give you all particulars of what he is  doing etc. Am still in hospital have  first got 10 days leave from the Doctor  who is a great sport and am off to  Glasgow to-night with a Scotch officer named McCallum who has invited me  to his home for that time in this  way I shall have an extra 10 days  leave shall get my discharge as soon  as I get back then my medical board  and no doubt a short sick leave of 10 days or so then back to France  shall cable you when leaving England  for France this will be my second  trip to Scotland and am looking  forward to a good time Mc is a  good sport we should have some fun 
up there especially with a chap who  knows the ropes. When I get my leave  if any and stay in London shall try  and get Nana down for a couple of  days and show him around Cambridge  is only about 60 miles from London but of course these schools are fairly strict  and fancy f no London leave is given  however may be able to work the stunt  by writing to his C.O. wounded brother  in London etc. etc. shall try.  Received letter  from Jane, Lorna and Lucy Cowdery last  night dated about Dec 20th say Mum only  sent those cards etc home to you to  buck you up a bit did not want  you to advertise thay Jane told me  about something appearing in the Bankers  Review am not very keen on that sort  of thing you know. however will forgive you  this time if it does not occur again   Well my dear shall be busy to day must  go to the bank and draw money get  tickets for Scotland etc. drew £15 last Saturday  but giving Nana some and going to Cambridge upset most of it one certainly can get through it here. best of love to all shall probably write next from Scotland, Boby.