No.4 London Gen. Hos. Denmark Hill.
Author: Robert James Henderson. Date: 13.11.1916.

My dear Mum, Expect by the time you receive this letter it will be about Christmas time and no doubt all at Whanfried will be gay and merry and know you will all be thinking of us on this side of the world and of course we shall be thinking of you all. Hope you all have a very Merry Christmas & a bright New Year  and trust 1917 will bring about the end of this terrible war and allow those of us who are left to get home again. Have been looking around London for some little thing to send to you for Christmas but have seen nothing so far but eventually shall. I think the leg is  improving slightly but has not yet healed and  when healed will require a lot of massage before it will be much use am staying in this afternoon to see the surgeon and hear what he thinks about it. Have an invitation to go to the country house of some Lord or Duke somewhere forget the name of the place which
should be all right but do not know when  I shall be able to get away can hardly  ask ask the old pot to get a nurse in especially for me so that my dressing can be done properly each day. Went and heard Clara Butt last Saturday afternoon we had Earl Greys' box at the Albert Hall next to the Kings box some hot stuff were we not a very excellent concert it was too all high class stuff She certainly has a great voice and a charming manner London streets last Thursday were crowded it being the Lord Mayors Day.  the procession  was very good troops of every nation being represented. bands, postillion riders. and these old custom coaches that you see in pictures it was very novel and new to me The out English crowds are very quiet very little cheering although German captured guns and airoplanes formed part of the procession. The only bit of row I  heard was made by some New Zealand & Canadian soldiers perched on the roof of Charing Cross station trust the colonials to cheer these people up again A huge crowd were at Victoria station the other afternoon waiting for a leave train to come in and as the chaps came along you would have thought it was a funeral procession instead of being quite lively 
as it should have been. Have been going  to the Trocadero for afternoon tea a lot we  have great time down there it is a great place. costs 2/6 but one gets all sorts of nice things, a beautiful room, ragtime band, and fine concert every day all the decent cafes here here are very comfortable and all have excellent music to say nothing of the interesting people one sees. Have had no mail since about the 10th of last September which is pretty rotten still it is no use growling  I must really go and see the Henleys again often intend to but never seem to get out of Piccadilly Circus with its fascinations  of all descriptions and gaiety. Have no more news at present kindest remembrances to all and lots of love to the family sincerely trust we will all be together for Christmas 1917. from Bob.
Have you been hearing from Nana at all I have heard nothing from of him for the last 6 weeks presume he is all right and in France still doing his bit. Bob.