Author: Robert James Henderson

Location: France
 Date: 5th September 1917.
 My dear Mum, Have just received the cable sent from home containing congratulations I presume of course for the M.C. honour. Thank you all for thinking the congrats of course its all a matter of luck and good fortune and after all a bloke is only trying to do the job he left home comforts etc etc to do. Afraid I have been very slack with my letter writing both home and to other people but we have been very busy and working hard for the past couple of months in and out of the line the whole time. Have just come out and nicely settled down as we thought for about 2 months rest and training but alas no we will be here for about 3 weeks only now and then are to be in another large stunt from what I can see similar to the Somme about this time last year am getting full of these hop overs not for myself but for all these chaps under ones care. When you come to think of it it is a huge responsibility to take 
a Company into action and of course officers and men must be killed and wounded etc the whole show is rotten. We are in a delightful spot at present about 40 miles behind the line no bombs aircraft or row the country is looking splendid it is great out on route marches etc especially if you are riding quite hot stuff these days being a mounted officer having my own horse groom etc & when booted and spurred believe me am some swank.  As far as A Coy is concerned we are very comfortable 5 officers living together on a farm surrounded by the most beautiful paddocks hedges orchards etc the people are great tricks they cannot speak a word of English but we manage to get plenty of butter milk eggs poultry vegetables etc from them so that in the little spare time that does occur we live well and knock out quite a lot of fun. Of course we are terribly busy getting as far as officers are concerned working up for this stunt arranging cricket football boxing etc for the boys then of course officers meetings and the 100 & 1 things that require attention give me the life of a private every time do your bit of drill fighting etc then you are finished one is never finished as an officer especially running a Coy however it is all good experience in any case it is no good growling but just battle along and carry 
on until put out of action. What do you think of this for stiffness am just due for leave either to England or Paris and expected to get away any day now when news has just come along that for the present all leave is cancelled so that now I expect one will have to wait of until after the stunt if lucky enough to pull through. Major Marks is back again with the Battn and is at present in command during the Colonels absence in England wounded he seems quite all right again and certainly not like a man who everyone expected would die on account of the wounds received it is indeed marvellous how ones get over these things and bucks up enough courage to have a another go. Had a letter from Millie Henley the family are all well her Father is at Harve and expects to visit the Battn if possible, so expect to see him any day. Have not heard anything of Hana for some time hope he is quite all right also hope to run into him sooner or later last time I saw him was when we were in support just behind the line he was quite all right then lots of love to all, Bob. 

Will write again soon 