Ismailia 9.1.1916 My dear Mum. We are both back again in Egypt again and are camped at Ismailia which is on the Suez Canal between Cairo & Suez I think this particular part of the canal is known as the Bitter Lakes. We I received letters from you Mum. Lorna Mick. Vera Hoskins Billy Bull. Percy Arnott. Mary Robbo & Jean. also Herbert Dennis Nana received about 6 and myself 9 also some papers Mail Splashes Sunday Sun Life Magazine Herald. also parcel containing cigarettes tobacco soap socks cheese etc all this came to us in one day here and every thing the reading matter eatables & smoking material were very much appreciated it was indeed a 
a treat to hear all the news. Do not know when I shall be able to answer all these letters but shall try to eventually you might let Lorna see the letters I send to you & thereby saving an extra letter to her I am sure she will not mind tell Mick his letters are most interesting & to continue same he does not say anything about business affairs did he buy those 100 shares for me in the Electric Light Co. I shal see they are paying well also I presume the Government are paying some money into my account I also wrote the office to pay some money in as I am again a private will you kindly in future address my letters Machine Gun Section 13th Battalion & Nana's B. Company. 13th Battalion you can put this in instead of 7th Reinforcements this will make the sorting of the mail easier and less chance of letters going astray. these bags of mails for the Battalion come in batches of 800 to 1000 at a time so you can imagine the work Nana is writing as soon as he gets a chance He with another bank clerk has fallen in  for some office work for a few days & today being Sunday our letter writing day he will miss 
his chance of writing this week. I cabled to Father yesterday saying we were both well & in Egypt as I thought you might have imagined all sorts of things happening during the our evacuation from the peninsular expect you have had all sorts of reports regarding same gave you particulars in a previous letter We had a good trip across from Lemnos but I seem to be in luck going across there a ship 3 hrs ahead of us was torpeoded & sank & coming back a ship was sunk that left 6 hrs behind us however same old story those who are born to be hanged with never be drowned. Coming in the train to this place we had a very dreary trip leaving Alexandria at 8 o'clock in the night & arriving here at 5.30 am the next morning then there was a shortage of tents & most of us sleep out and I can tell you it is some cold here at night time however Nana Blackall Wright & self built a fairly comfortable dug - out we can buy all sorts of dainties here such as bread butter jam beer fruit eggs etc so are having the time of our lives for all the world like a picnic on Thirroul beach without the ocean to look at Do not know what our next move will be. inclined to think we will put the winter in here and have a go against the Germans in France next summer however noone knows we may have to fight on the canal yet. We have a fairly strenuous time here drill etc marching over this sand & practice coming into action with horses & limbers etc so that we are all agreed the best place to be is actually in the firing line & shall not be sorry when we are at it again. This place is very pretty pretty that is the town portion right along the canal beti beautiful parks & gardens & avenues of course it is a very small place shall try to get a week end off to visit Cairo or Port Said we are about 3 hrs journey from each place. but these Australians when let loose make the pace such a welter getting drunk & raiding shops etc  that it is very hard to get any leave at all Yesterday 13th Batt played 4th Field ambulance rugby football match it was a very close game & most exciting the ambulance lads winning by 4pts to nil. We had our own band on the ground & plenty of visitors French ladies & naval officers etc who came across from the tennis courts which are close to the ground Mr. Henley in Alexandria & Leslie has seen him we should get all our parcels etc now Leslie in the best of health he has nothing to do with me now however often have a yarn with him Biddy Baston has charge of A Company also see a good deal of him Mr Herring has charge of the Battalion so that we know quite a number of the heads Tell Jane it is a good idea of hers to wait for her trip until we get to London should not be surprised if we ended up there one of these days although I do not think she would enjoy a trip on a troopship very much Am sorry my delay in Egypt caused you worry also cabling for money but rest assured I shall g not get into any serious trouble I make a point of always taking pleasures etc in moderation the army  has not spoilt me so far in that respect you must have received letters by this explaining why I did not leave Zeitoun with the company and am indeed glad now. Being in the Machine Gun Section we get out of quite a lot of dirty work exempt from guards, fatigues and many petty worries the men in the companies are subjected to Am in a fairly financial position at present having about £10 but things are expensive here and money does not go far So Mum if cabling at any time for money do not get alarmed & imagine all sorts of dreadful things the Henderson Bros will keep fairly straight thanks  to previous training Trust you all continue to keep well & things go OK will write soon again lots of love to all
from Bob.