France 11.6.1916 My dear Mum  We have at last arrived in France and settled in billets at R about 10 miles from the British firing line our present position is somewhere about 50 miles north of Calais, in Flanders. We left the boat at Marsaelles and from there travelled by train right through France the journey took 60 hours in the train which was some trip. I would not have missed this trip for all the bullets the Germans ever made it is impossible for me to find words enough to describe it the whole thing was simply gorgeous it was like passing through a huge park the whole way and I have never seen anything that could come any where near the beauty and picturesqueness of the country the green fields & beautiful trees with single red poppies, but buttercups etc growing wild. I never thought that anything like this could exist and I simply enjoyed every minute of the trip After landing from the boat we had to send our boxes away with all our decent clothes these have gone direct to Cox's 10 Charing Cross London I wonder if we will ever see them again We had great fun on our long trip of course we had several halts about 3 hrs per day to issue rations etc to the men and get meals for ourselves. We had a good view of the river Rhone & Seine & others also towns such as Lyons, Dijon Amiens, Calais, etc. I must tell you of an experience I had in company with 2 other officers We arrived at some place I have forgotten the name where we had 1 hour for lunch and about a mile to walk for same by a piece of bad luck messing about trying to get a car etc we missed the troop train with all our belongings etc. and also discovered that 9 men had also done the same then the fun began As you know our French was very crude & there we were trying to find out what we had to do to try and catch up our own train which of course we never did. We of course had rather a worrying time but the experience was great and I can tell you my French is considerably better now than it was we spent a few hrs in Calais Abberville & Hazlebruck which would have been missed had we have caught our own train all these places are large towns & we had some good times. Looking around etc of course this all meant extra expense by feeding the fellows also ourselves & naturally this chicken is again broke so that I may be cabling for more money at any time shall probably get the next lot through to London however we all picked up the battalion safely 15hrs later they were all fixed up in their billets etc. Each company of the battalion is separated about ¼ of a mile apart on separate farms as it were We A Coy have quite a nice place the officers all together on the bottom floor of the residence 2 to each room the owners of the house live on the top story directly above us There is Madame & her daughter (some class) and an old chap. We all have beds they sell us eggs etc & cook what we want & look after us generally which is great the chaps live in the stables sheds etc close by. the whole thing is so novel and new to us but the charge is simply great. Then of course we visit the other company messes have a regular visitors night etc. This is summer here of course but is it is very damp wet and cold, if this is summer I do not know what the winter will be like Have just heard that the 45th battalion arrived safely last night I expect they will be billeted some few miles from us here but will look Nana up as soon as possible We are to be here only a fortnight & then go right into the firing line leave for eight days can be got I believe but have decided to defer my trip to England until I have had a smack at the Germans then after a flutter shall apply for leave if still in the land of the living. The present spot where we are has been in the hands of the Germans & the tales of the residents are indeed thrilling Please excuse the rambling disjointed letter but I seem to be in a perfect whirl at present everything is so novel & new and such a pleasant change from Egypt. Tell Mick the girls are simply bosca here they look so clean & fresh after Egypt but all without exception are as hot as mustard this country will always do me We have just returned from a 3 or 4 mile young march with the company it has been raining lightly & ^a beautiful fresh breeze blowing one could march miles in this place without feeling tired Mother you would simply dote on it. Wrote a letter to you from the ship & cabled from Alexandria that I had left Egypt. Will write again soon when we get probably settled down lots of love to all am in the best of health have a slight cold which I hope to get rid of shortly by the aid of hot whisky every night before going to bed am simply doting on this country no wonder the French are fighting well for their country for in my opinion it is quiet worth it. Am enclosing a Menu from the ship with the signature of all the 13th Batt officers keep it for me until I return if lucky. lots of love to all  Bob.
PS Cannot post letters at present but suppose you will get them some day if you are lucky. I think in future you had better mark our letters France instead of Egypt
 