Author: Herbert Gordon Carter
Date: 30 April 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text: 

30 April 1915. 
 My dear Father & Mother  Well, here I am as yet safe & sound, but  I can find no explanation for the fact Except the  mercies of Providence. We are now having a  rest after 4 days & 3 nights incessant strain,  practically no sleep & very little tucker. The strain is  the worst for we were absolutely fighting for our lives -  I will fill this letter up according to the time;  if tomorrow is a rest I can go on - but now it is  getting dark & no lights are permitted - Looking  back - it seems marvellous to have got as far  inland as we did Just now we are camped on the shore in the  shelter of the steep bluffs - I had a glorious swim  & sun bake yesterday - I don't think I ever  appreciated a swim so much. - We left Lemnos  on Saturday morning (24th) & hung about  generally all that day. - On Sunday morning we   landed. The 3rd Brigade landed first, about 4 p.m.  & captured the beaches along the coast. They would  have gone ahead at a wonderful rate for when we  came on shore at 7 oclock. it was without opposition  but we were called on to reinforce a few minutes  afterwards. The country was terrible to advance over   - like the Blue Mts or Cowan Creek, only no trees,  only low scrub. When we got near the firing line  we were fairly well done & had discarded our packs  & most of the picks & shovels we were carrying.  Then we got into the firing line where the 3rd  Bgde were & were told to hang on. I never hope  to have to go thro' such a fire as we were subjected  to all day. The worst of it was coming direct from  the flank - enfilading us - The shell fire was the  worst but their machine guns did a lot. My skipper  Capt McGuire had not been there 5 min before he was hit 
but he managed to be able to walk back. I  don't mind confessing that for the first two hours I  was thoroughly scared & wondered how on earth any  one was to go through a campaign at this rate for   I had no idea as to whether the conditions were  normal for war or not. Anyway I'm glad to say  that, thanks to your bringing up my instincts were  correct - for when some of the men started shouting out  to retire & tried to run, I found myself standing up  & shouting to them to go back regardless of anything.  I give you full credit for this, my Father & Mother,  for the action came quite spontaneously & was not  the result of any thought. It gave me a great deal  of confidence & I felt fairly right from then. I had  another occasion for a similar action later on in  the day & I kept getting hold of all the scared chaps  about & sending them up. For about 3 hours before  nightfall. I don't think I dared move -  By nightfall we were able to move about freely & I  found myself some distance from where I was at  the beginning of the day - although I thought I had moved  only a few yards. I went to look for the Company &  found them similarly situated - all over the place 
in fact I could only find a few. So I helped a  section of the line that had lost an officer & went  back to Bdge H.Qs. for orders & to report position.  They sent me back & cheered me as much as they   could - altho' they were very grumpy themselves & talked  of retreat. However they told me we must hang on so I  went back but could not find the lot I had left, its  extraordinary how easy it is to get lost. However  that did not worry me much for I found about 150 men  walking about. apparently leaderless & retiring.  They were taking things very easily & there seemed no  reason for retiring, so I took charge of them & we  made a firing line in the best available position there,  & dug ourselves in for the night. The Turks attacked  only about 5 mins after we rallied & made a lot of  row shouting "Allah" etc. so we could hear them  coming. However it's not wise to shoot at night till  you can see your enemy so we waited till they were  within 100 yards & let them have it. The "Allahs"  ceased & we had an hour or so spell. This put a  lot of confidence into the men & they dug well. Then I  spent some time going around improving the line & finding  what troops there were around. Things were really a lot 
better than I had imagined for there was quite a  strong defensive position behind me. Which I could  fall back on & it was well held. So we held on &  one or two night attacks met with the same success as  the first. They tried to get round us by the Sea shore but  a Torpedo boat destroyer spotted them - that ended that  movement. By morning we were well dug in & though they  put shrapnel over us, we could lie low - We did  not move at all that morning as I thought it best not  to do till orders were received. A detached body like  us could do no good on its own. Gen Bridges came  round at 3 pm & ordered us to swing round & join  a general advance that was taking place.