Author: Herbert Gordon Carter
Date: 1 May 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text: 

1st May 1915

 later I joined in the general advance. which consisted mainly  as far as I could see of the 4th Bn, although there were  a lot of 2nd Brigade men with them too. We advanced  O.K. to the top of the hill & then we had rifle fire from  the front & deadly machine gun fire from the right flank.  We had to advance across a piece of open ground & I  can't understand now how anybody got through.  Most of us seemed to & when we got under cover & lay down they  must have put two belts clean thro' the maxims. They seemed to be going only inches over me & I had no idea I could lie so flat. I found one bullet hole thro' the back of my coat afterwards which I think must have happened then. We kept on going & had a pretty easy time for about 300 yards when we had shrapnel opened on us with deadly accuracy. German gunners of course. After the shell fire the day before & the shock - this was too much for the men – They retired & I'm sorry to say a great many broke into a rabble. About 100 yards behind was a valley with a sharp drop on the forward slope which made quite good cover & when I stopped, thinking most of the others would – I found myself getting left except for a few men & another officer, a very keen little chap & with his help & the shouting of Cooees we managed to get most of them to return to what was really a safe position. ungetatable by shells. The men dug & made themselves more secure & we got the position strengthened. It was then getting dark & one could move about more freely. Two shells burst very close to we, one scorched my face & I was very surprised to find myself alive, the other caught my arm slightly & made a small hole thro' my sleeve. I found later part of my equipment nearly cut thro' by a
bullet so you can see I've had a few adventures. Night had fallen we were ordered to retire on our main defensive position. I was rather annoyed about this as I think we could have held on ad lib, Well we retired on this position & dug hard all night & had quite a respectable trench by morning. We were in that trench two days & one night when we were relieved. The Turks attack chiefly at night & are up to a lot of dodges. Germans of course do this – They persistently blew the bugle call of the British 'Charge' one night - Their spies are very bad & there must be several in our lines for all sorts of funny orders get about whose source cannot be ascertained. We were in rather a commanding position our part of the trench & could see all over the place. The bombardment of the Turkish position by the 10" & 12" Naval guns on Tuesday - was great to watch. They got amongst some of their supports & reserves & you could see the Turks running in all directions - I've given you my own personal experiences - I had not the slightest idea of what we were supposed to do. However, we have sorted ourselves out now & know more or less what we are up against. So should not suffer so heavily again. I can see however that in war
hesitation is fatal - - It is something to have come through what we have for the Experience of the past few days will help us tremendously. There was a good deal of what seemed to me mock heroism, otherwise fool hardiness displayed the first two days.