Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 22 January 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Tuesday Jan. 22, 1918
Weather: cold, chill, snowing Health: good
Up at 6:00. Reveille under arms. Breakfast, toast, butter, oatmeal, apple sauce, coffee.
Take post No. 2, hall main barracks, at 7:00. Pay particular attention to salutes to officers. Keep moving so as not to tire as job is for 5 hours. Men kept outside in snow by Captain. Officers come inside to warm themselves. To make conversation and relieve monotony I ask officers question which provokes controversy among them. Gun in a short time weighs about thirty pounds, it seems. Captain in and out all morning till I am tired saluting him. Boys taken inside to clean guns which are very wet. 12 o’clock comes after an interminable wait. Relieved by Walcott. Dinner, apple sauce, steak and coffee. Lecture in Mess Hall about dressing of bunks. Lt. Mullins on insurance. Most of the boys take $10,000 policies. Sgt. Moore displays ability as an insurance solicitor. Recreation Room with Hollifield. Read and finish the “Illustrious O’Hagan,” no chance to shoot. Out to retreat in six inches of snow, just after I had finished cleaning my gun. Stand in snow for 15 minutes. Write and fall asleep writing. Wake up with my foot asleep. Go down to Mess but almost fall downstairs. Have to rub my leg. Supper, beef stew, apple sauce, cocoa. The meals here becoming poor. Hard potatoes, burnt apple sauce. Finish letter. Read again. Jack London’s “The Game.” Make bed. Listen to our band in Recreation Room. Ask Captain McMurtry whether I can do anything to help on program for Regimental Show. No chance. Read and write a letter to Mama. Shave and wash clothes. To bed at 11. Many references are made about going to France soon, both by officers and men, and from what I can learn from newspapers I think we will be sent over soon. Extensive preparations are being made for Regimental Show. A parade is decided on. Drilling will be stiff from now on to prepare us. Picture we had taken of Company is in hall of main barracks. Copies to be had for $1.00. Bunks have been shifted again to suit Colonel. Lanza gets thirty days’ leave for business reasons. Sleep very well, being exceedingly tired.
