Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 1 August 1918.

Nationality: Australian

Text: 

Thu. Aug. 1, 1918
Weather: Fine, Warm
Health: Good
Lots of cooties
Up at 7:00. Breakfast. Bacon, bread, coffee.
Wash, shave, police, put blankets out to air.
The news of the morning is that there was a
gas alarm sounded at the front and it was
carried back as far as P........ , where it was
heard from by us. Germans came over, but a
little too soon. They were spied on the skyline
and sent back with losses. We, that is the 1st
battalion of the .......th, lose 5 men - 1 killed -
4 wounded. From that it argues that every time
we make a relief, the Boche knows about it.
He was evidently intent on cutting us up a bit,
same as he did to 6 of our own regiment.
There are the usual aeroplanes up this
252morning. They can be heard but not seen,
directing artillery. Try to read the story I have
written for Leah. It seems I like so much trash
to me, so I give it up. Begin to read. I have
found again the book that I started, "That
Printer of Udell" and I mean to finish it.
Sergeant announces work for the morning. We
must get out of the way before the Major or
somebody complains about our idleness. The
work in hand will be a problem in patrolling.
We go to the woods for the purpose, a quarter
mile down the road and to the left. We get a
little lecture about the nature of the work in
hand, after we stack arms and make ourselves
comfortable, and then we are allowed to rest,
for 30 minutes, before we go to work. Gillece
put in charge of E, a corporal for each other
company. Take their men out to all points in
the wood and endeavor to close in on a central
point, simulating night conditions, traveling as
silently as possible. We treat it as a joke at
first, but later work with Barney well enough
for the sergeant to pronounce our work worthy
of merit. Another rest, so that we can partake
of strenuous half hour's work later. In the
meantime, while the sergeant and his corporals
are planning how to capture an imaginary
machine gun post, we capture a huckleberry
patch. Before our tongues can become
properly black, we are called to battle. I crawl
and creep and halt and look around in silence,
as far as possible. I try to avoid the sound of
twigs breaking and dry leaves rustling, but that
cannot be done in spite of the greatest effort.
We capture the machine gun, bring it back
within our lines and are given the rest of the
morning off. Perhaps the Sgt. sees how
anxious we are to get back to the blueberry
patch. We get further away from the road into
a patch which has a million big berries. I pick
and eat them until I can eat no more. I must be
dragged away from them by Howe. Make a
stop every time I see a good cluster. After I
can eat no more, I lie down on a bed of dry
leaves and smoke a pipe until I fall asleep
thinking how easy a life we are leading. At 11,
we are taken back to the billet for dinner.
Arrive a half hour or so too soon. Spend the
time writing in my bunk. Dinner. Beef, sauce,
flapjacks, blackberry jam, coffee. There is no
work for the afternoon. I finish writing, then
for want of something better to do, I take a
nap. I make another attempt to read my
manuscript, but not being interested in it, there
is no use, no compelling interest. After my nap
I feel like playing a game of pussy cat. Select
....... to play with. The first game I beat him by
a fluke. The next game is lost by me in the
same manner. Read until supper time. Mess.
Meatballs, potatoes, bread, coffee. There are a
few games worked on the mess sergeant for
the purpose of procuring seconds. None of
them are very successful. Take a vacation
from writing to-day. Ask who wants to play
pussy cat. Get into one game. Work hard and
sweat much. Ride a bicycle down hill and up
for the exercise. It is a good bit of work
bringing the cycle uphill. Most everybody
rides up and down once. Farrell gives an
exhibition of trick riding. He is adept at
getting close to objects without running into
them. He brushes the trousers of a man with
the front wheel of the bicycle. Those who
come along the road seem to think that he is
having difficulty in riding a bicycle.
Entertainment is the order of things to-night.
Black, Himpler and Kelly give us a song and
dance. Black makes us laugh with his silly
antics. As it grows dark, I take a letter to the
Lt. for his OK, thinking that he will not take
the trouble to read it. Doherty has a request for
supplies signed, which spoils my chances.
Gillece brings some mail. I cannot understand
why I have none and why of late, so many of
Leah's letters are lost. Doherty gets a package.
It looks like candy. I will watch his
movements. We are all around him in the rear
of the barracks, when Schlesinger brings a
253French party with him. They give us some
bread and furnish some very good
entertainment for us. One of them sings for us
in imitation of a phonograph. The fidelity of
his reproduction is remarkable and his voice is
one of the finest I have heard in the army. He
is cheered and applauded by all the boys in the
barracks. Attract men from F Co., among them
two boys who can sing well. They shine for
the benefit of the Frenchmen. They vie with
each other. The bread is eaten at the party,
with the addition of some Karo syrup. Lights
are being lit. Yesterday everybody was afraid
of the light; that they would attract planes. To-
night, it is forgotten and lights are lit all
around. There is nothing to disturb the quiet of
the evening. Doherty distributes the candy.
The order to move has finally come through. It
is known that we move tomorrow. The line of
march is decided upon and mapped out for the
scouts. Too bad nobody knows where we go.
It gives the boys many sleepless nights.
Doherty is rather out of luck receiving the
package of candy to-night. He will not be able
to carry it in addition to his necessary personal
belongings, so he gives as much of it away as
he can. The usual barrage of things that are not
attached begins. Howe and Wade begin a little
drunken brawl, which is friendly but to a
stranger would seem to be in earnest. Between
the two of them, I am entertained with some of
the choicest bits of repartee I have ever heard.
Were it not for the fact that it is smutty, it
would be classic. To-day and for sometime
past, I have felt as if I would very much like to
be home with Leah. I must own up to being
homesick. I do my best to fight it off, but of
myself it is not possible, therefore it is
providential that entertainment, even of an
amateur kind, should draw my thoughts away
from myself. I forget for the rest of the night. I
am reminded of more cheerful things like the
vaudeville we saw at ........ and the
entertainments we have given among
ourselves. It is quiet about 12 but for Wade
and Howe. Levine comes in at 12 looking for
a searchlight to enable him to go to N....... and
return with a message. No one but Schlesinger
has a light worth anything. He is awakened by
Levine and Wade both, but refuses to give
away his light. He is justly cursed and sworn
at. Levine gets a light from another fellow,
which will answer the purpose. A limber
driver is lost in the woods. Wade is a good
fellow. Offers to help him find his way out of
the woods. Rations are given the men - 1 can
of beef, 2 cans of crackers and nine biscuits.
Burn up some of Leah's letters and all others.
A hateful task. The boys tease me about it
until I grow angry. Get rid of all envelopes.
Find out accidentally that Wolff, one of our
detachment, is a stone hand, which sets me to
wondering if I can still impose a form. He,
too, tries. We go to it. I have quite forgotten
how.