Author: Thomas James Richards.
Date: 16th March 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

March 16th.  Friday. Morning Parade:-- Platoon drill. Musketry 35 yd. range Bombing. Afternoon:-- Lewis gun. Extended order drill. 5.30 Lecture German bombs. 7.00 Lecture by the Officers "Reconnessance". Lecture by Capt. Maltby. "German Bombs." There are 9 well know kinds of German hand grenades, and 2 kinds of rifle grenades. "Stick grenade" weight 1 lb. 10 ozs. complete. There are
no bullets or pellets inside the tin can. It contains high explosive only. The ignition is caused by friction on the drawing of the string running down the centre of the wooden handle. "Cricket Ball" can be thrown 30 yds. The interior is filled with gunpowder and on exploding by time fuse the castiron casing breaks up and gives a shrapnel effect. Egg grenades. 11 ozs. in weight.. German books say they can be thrown 50 yards; but at the school here they have often been thrown 65 yards and a good cricketer could throw them 90 yards. It contains a small gunpowder charge, and because of its lightness and smallness is not to be feared much. Oyster bomb, weight 13¼ to 15 ozs. It is a percussion bomb only. Its flatness caused it to be thrown a long distance. It is not a very destructive, being made of light plain iron there is no metal to injure one. It is mostly used by men in attack, as, when thrown edgewise there is no danger in coming right up behind it, bursting right or left as it does. Hairbrush bomb. It is a long can packed around the sides with pellets, the centre containing the explosive. The bomb is attached to a stick. It is one of the first bombs used by the enemy, but are still being slightly used. Time or pecussion. The rifle granades have a range of 400 yards. To reduce the range a washer is placed firmly at the top of the iron rod this has the effect of bringing the range down very much.

In extended order work there is the word retire to be forgotten. In all infantry work the word retire should never be used. It seems to throw the men into confusion when in a fight. On the Somme front a German wounded shouted RETIRE, and valuable ground was lost. It has caused much trouble on other occasions also.