Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 4 May 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 

Sat. May 4, 1918
Weather: Partly cloudy, Cold
Health: Good
Up at 5:45. Raining. Reveille. Breakfast.
Oatmeal, bacon, bread, coffee. Work for
morning in doubt. Drill call sounds. Take a
chance. In an effort to profit from indecision
of commander, I take a shave. Originally
planned to roll packs for an early inspection,
but weather preventing, do not know whether
we will go out for drill or have foot inspection.
I do nothing until orders come. Foot
inspection by our platoon Sgt. He can do
nothing for kink in my leg and discontinue
taking off shoes, telling him I am OK. Drill
call comes again at 9:00. To go with usual
pack. Assembled and go by short cut to drill
field #2 where we take things easy. Close
order drill, squad skirmish, platoon skirmish
drill, manual, etc. Gun inspection. Pass
muster. Only a few reported. Not much snap
in work of company. Seems more like we are
kept out of sight than for any serious purpose.
Overhear a conversation between officers
which makes it appear likely we will have a
formation in afternoon. Decidedly not to my
liking. Go back at 12. Mess. Stew, hard tack,
coffee. A new batch of men have arrived and
are quartered in nearby village. Tell stories of
obstacles confronting them on trip across. A
railroad wreck, a sub sighted, etc. Make
inquiries from men about late news from
home. None of importance. Requested to
remain about quarters until informed when we
are to assemble for march to baths. Told on
mess line to be ready at 3. I write a letter to
Mother until then, anxious to miss formation. I
do not fancy walking for half an hour for a
probable cold bath, when I can take one at the
pump. Urged to go by corporal who will have
to account for me. I stay behind to gather up
towel, socks and soap. Arrive at assembly
point after company leaves. Go back, get
soiled clothes as I had planned to do and take
them to field , where I scrub them in cold
water in tub. Hang them to dry, or rather
spread them on grass to dry. Write a letter to
Sachs. Sun is hot and bright. Welcome change
from forenoon when it was so chill and cold,
that I feared consequences, having very thin
underclothing, only blouse for protection.
Feels comfortable and pleasant to lie on grass,
sun on back, writing to boys. I can tell them
quite cheerfully of my experiences on trip
across and in billet. Disturbed occasionally.
Make plans to go to city about 10 kilometers
distant for Sunday outing. Go up for supper.
Cheese, bread, marmalade, coffee. Beginning
to acquire a taste for marmalade. Passed it up
frequently before. Get some from boys who
cannot become accustomed to it, to save for
tomorrow. Write while it is still light. Clothes
on grass have become damp from dew by
now. Pick them up, hang on line. Make bed
and tuck in shortly after. Bunkmate a little
under the influence of liquor. Talkative and
confused but sober enough to be a gentleman.
As usual Tommy and Fritz have taken
advantage of the half holiday to bang away at each other's wire. Sustained fire kept up,
beginning at about 2 and running well into the
night. Disturbs my slumbers by its intensity.
Considerable rumbling. Reilly reports having
gone outside at 3 AM and having seen flashes
of fire as firing is done. Appears to him to be
quite near. He is much amazed at what he
sees. Talks much about it. Airplanes active all
afternoon, flying very high in both directions.
Occasional firing done. Cannot ascertain
purpose or results. Boys think favorably of
going on excursion tomorrow with Reilly and
me in early forenoon after they have returned
from church service. A few letters have come
in from Ireland and England for the boys. It
seems to me about time that some have come
from the States. There is no need to censor
such letters, so if they have come as reported it
is time they were distributed. Letters have
been returned to men by base censor on
account of improper address. Thomas of our
squad has received a money order from home
for a large sum of francs and has gone to the
city to cash it. Does not return. Absent since
yesterday. If apprehended, punishment in store
for him will be very severe. Thompson from
another platoon with him to help him spend
money.