Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 29 July 1918.

Nationality: Australian

Text: 

Mon. Jul. 29, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
Up at 7:00. This is "iron ration" day. There
are no rations received and breakfast consists
of apple sauce and coffee. I am too late to get
any apples, so a cup of coffee must satisfy me.
I intend to do a lot for myself to-day if I have
no official duties. I wash and shave. It seems
to me it would be a good idea to clean my gun,
something I have not done in a month or more.
Hang out my blankets to air. Police. The boys
suggest to the Sergeant that we go to the
247delousing station this morning. It is not
doubted for a moment that Griffiths will give
his consent. The sergeant puts the proposition
to him and of course he permits half of his
men to go. I ask to be allowed to go today. I
am on sergeant's list. While the party is
forming, I write a little more of my letter to
Leah. I take the paper with me and fill my pen,
to take advantage of any opportunity I may
have during the day to resume writing. I am
hungry. Luckily I have money with which to
buy something to eat in the town. Pleased to
hear from Jerry that we will have the whole
day off. We can visit the company, too, and
perhaps I can get a pair of shoes or something
else I need. We go off at 9, fully equipped.
Take the open road going in straggling
formation, because there is danger of being
seen by OB or observers within the German
lines. We are cautioned by men building gun
emplacements not to go near them. We look
for fruit on the way. Meet some company men
manicuring the roads, with Del Duca in
charge. In town a little after 10. The YMCA is
sold out of sweets as usual. We resort to the
Salvation Army. There I buy cakes and raisins
and Himpler buys nuts with which we fill the
voids in our stomachs. We hang around on the
square for a half hour, talking to men from the
company, waiting for the delousing station to
open at 11. We go to ........ where the station is
located, eating nuts and raisins on the road.
When we get there, man in charge tells us we
cannot have a bath to-day, because of the
shortage of coal with which to heat the water.
After a great deal of red tape is unwound, we
are allowed inside and promised a cold bath.
Even that is welcome to me. We undress. I
find many cooties in my shirt and drawers.
The medical sergeant tells me that if I have
lice I had better not bathe, because I will not
receive new underwear. The proceedings are
halted until an officer comes, who goes over
the situation with the man in charge, and after
a long time decides we can get a hot bath. We
are all ready. The same thin streams of water
as everywhere else, but it is most refreshing to
let the water play on my body. It turns cold in
a few minutes. Our bath finished, we go to put
on the dirty, lousy underwear in which we
came. When official red tape is unwound
again and we are told we can get a new suit of
underwear and socks, nothing more to be
desired, but after the fashion of men who are
given something, I want more. I ask for a pair
of breeches and an OD shirt. I cannot procure
any. We dress and I leave to go wherever I
please for the rest of the day. Gillece and I go
to E Company for our dinner. At the entrance
to town, there is a plum tree, which gives a
handful of juicy, ripe, sugar plums. We have a
bottle of beer each in an estaminet. Time for
dinner. At the company there is bully beef,
bread, coffee, which with the fruit and cake
we have had leaves us satisfied. Ask Bergen
for what I need and get a fine pair of shoes and
socks. Lt. McDougall calls me to ask a
question. Barney and I wash our towels and go
up on the hill over the town to get plums, after
which I propose to finish Leah's letter. We are
in luck and get many plums. Eat my fill, sit
down under a tree to write. I am tired and
propose to Gillece that he wake me up in a
half hour if I fall asleep. He is writing and
promises to wake me. I fall asleep and when I
awake, Carney and Devaney are waking
Gillece up from a nap. He does not know
where he is and looks for me. I ask Carney
how he feels and get full particulars about the
accident in which he was injured. I write for a
while longer and then propose that we go
down to the village. There I write again until
supper time. Some more men, who have not
seen me since I have come back, greet me,
among than Norman who lends me his mess
kit to get my supper. In spite of the hard times,
E Co. serves what I call a good meal. Bully
beef, beans, tomato sauce, squash, coffee.
248Plenty for me. Rubin tells me of his
experiences in the lines the night of July 3-4.
He was with Devlin at post 20, when the
barrage broke over his head. He says he has
written 25 pages in his diary about it from
which I judge how it affected him, because he
does not write of trivial things. He wants to go
to the YMCA to write. I am being interrupted
frequently, so I think it best to go with him to
stay for a half hour or so, while Gillece goes to
pick more plums. He comes back in time. We
are ready to go back to camp, when I find I
have forgotten my towel. Go back for it and
then we go for our billets. We take the open
road going back, where from the left we hear
the sound of a barrage going over, presumably
in the sector occupied by the .......th or the
........th. Kept up steadily until we reach our
barracks and late into the night. It is still light
enough to write outside until I finish Leah's
letter. Get a cup of hot sweet coffee from H
Co. kitchen. Lie in bed to read and correct
Leah's letter and then write by candlelight
until the men complain about me and demand
that I put it out. The boys have found a new
form of bedtime diversion. They throw things
around, heavy articles, soap, paper wads, etc.
are thrown. I am afraid something will land
where it is least expected and hurt someone.
They also tell more stories when they are tired
of throwing things about. A new thing occurs.
Since I have been in this sector, I have never
heard an aeroplane up over the lines at night.
The men insist that all lights are put out,
which is done as a precautionary measure.
Then in the dark we can see that the woods are
full of lights. In every barracks, there is the
gleam of lights which makes an excellent
target for Fritz. It is a Boche plane that is up.
Nobody shells him, to my surprise. We are
very much afraid that he will drop a few
bombs in our midst, so the noise and joke
telling is forgotten for a time. The plane
hovers overhead for more than a half hour,
then leaves again. Story telling and horseplay
is resumed. In the early morning the barrage,
which I heard, is attributed to the Germans. It
still continues and when I fall asleep it has not
diminished the least bit. After I come back
from town a French soldier brings around
some very good samples of hammered brass
vases made from 75 shells. I would like to
have some of them to send home, but I have
learned that brass cannot be exported from
French ports. No new light whatever on what
our next move will be, when or where.
Secrecy still enshrouds the orders. Some men's
overcoats taken from them. Does that mean
we are going to a clime so hot we will not
need them? Our battalion, I hear, has turned in
their rifles, which were packed in cosmoline.
Learn at the company of new promotions. An
imaginary gas alarm, which cannot be heard
for the noise in the barracks. E Co. is feeding a
company of engineers besides its own men.
See only one of our officers all day. Learn a
lot about farm produce, different kinds of
grain, etc. See an old man threshing rye with a
flail and investigate.