Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 15 March 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 

Fri. Mar. 15, 1918
Weather: fair, mild Health: good
Up at 6:00. Reveille, at which I have unpleasant task of reporting my Corporal absent. Many men are away. Company usual normal strength than all week. Captain furious at men who are in quarters, but do not fall out. He has officers running about like errand boys, tiring out men. Five new sergeants and 8 corporals promoted in my absence. Sgts. Child and Atha, top Corps. Black and Brodsky reduced to rank of private. Childs raised to Corporal. Punishment in store for absentees. Breakfast, grape nuts, frankfurters and coffee, prunes. New cook, Lubelinsky, has a broken nose, received in boxing bout last night. Took a bad beat-up. Outside without overcoat for drill. Everybody. A cold wind is blowing. Overcoats needed. Forty men detailed to Supply Warehouse to carry ammunition to quarters, other small articles. Out again, in again. Play games and drill. Sgt. Kaplan. In again for O.D. blankets in exchange for blue ones I have. Bedding aired. Take it inside, make bed. Dinner, steak, potato, coffee, very good. Lieut. Cook supervising. Has occasion to correct angle of tilt on hat. To parade ground for hour’s drill in review by Major. So windy that it is impossible to do manual. Gun is blown out of position and number of times almost drop it. Wind so strong, that I cannot stand in line. Marching properly dressed out of question. Big ungainly trench gloves another drawback. Lieut. Wilhelm in charge has strained every effort to make his commands heard. Major Cook looks on amused. Back to quarters. Dismissed. To bunk, read, nap. Retreat. Company (balance) paid off. Supper, roast beef, potato, prunes, coffee. Make bunk bed, read until 10. At mess, list of men is called, who are wanted to clean up Mess Hall, after 8. Includes corporals and privates. Freezing cold. A gale blowing. Write until 9 at bunk, then downstairs. Post Office to mail letter. Ears bitten by cold. Very clear. Myriads of stars in sky. A remarkable night. In hall of barracks. Everybody around stove. Pass list posted. Many men who have overstayed leave on last pass, posted, but not I. Content. Wash leggings, shave. Go to bed with head full of plans for getting pass during week. Fall asleep without worship and prayer. Some wind during night and outside and try to make amends, but doze off. Too cold and windows rattle too much to sleep soundly. Before mess, I go over gun a number of times and also clean windows. Olsen, ex-sailor, works on outside and nearly freezes his hands. Water from damp cloth freezes on window panes as soon as applied. In afternoon, we were called into orderly room to give time of arrival in camp after AWOL. A long line of men. Practically certain that each will receive a summary court martial, and probably fined. No leniency will be shown to any man. My only hope of excuse will be a telegram I sent, which was not received. Sgt. Svedja had Carp, a sergeant, transferred to R.R. Transportation Corp., a new branch of service for which approximately 2006 men are to be recruited. Fire drill.