Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 26 June 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 


Wed. Jun. 26, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
Up again at 6. We all stand to in trench.
Order not understood. We can see no reason
for it, but we obey. Wash in a little stream in
the fields. Visit our comrades with whom we
chat while waiting for breakfast. Told
happenings of the day in their sector. The
fourth platoon has been under shell fire,
shrapnel hitting among the men and whistling
around their heads. Vitkin comes nearest to
being hit. Corp. Fox, PT Thompson and
Carney meet with an accident, which severely
injured them. They had picked up a detonator
from somewhere in the trench. In spite of
repeated orders not to pick up or fool with
anything in the nature of an explosive that
might be found. It is never sure that such an
object is dead. There are a hundred reasons
why it has not exploded, but it may if
tampered with. This same detonator had been
kicked about by Clark all day, when Fox, a
brave, picked it up and examined it, perhaps
hammering it. While taking it apart, it went
off, blowing his hand to shreds so that he may
lose it, injuring Thompson along the arms and
on the chest painfully, and cutting a jagged
gash in the hand of Carney, whose life was
probably saved by providentially having the
injured hand up to his face in the act of eating
a piece of bread, else his head would have
been blown off. Pvt. Rodder was so frightened
during the shelling yesterday, that he ran back
to barracks at .......... . Move our belongings
back into the woods on other side of the road,
into our home by day. On the way I see a tree
loaded with cherries. I tell Corp. about it. He
and I go thither to pick a capful. I eat cherries
to my heart's content. Bring some back for the
boys. Take off shoes, leggings and stockings
and lie down for a nap until dinner time.
Boiled beef, potato, bread, coffee. I go to town
of .........., ten minute's walk away from where
we are encamped. There is a YMCA in that
place where I get crackers, cigarettes and
writing paper for the boys, furnishing the
necessary capital, for every one of our party is
broke. Get a newspaper too. I am so pleased
with the courtesy of the worker in charge, that
I stay to chat for a few minutes. In the center
of town there is a barn. Although very near to
the front, this town has not suffered much
from shelling. Buildings are all intact, except
for a few at farther end of village. A fair sized
grocery store where I see American canned
condensed milk on the shelves. Back with my
purchases to be scolded for not having bought
more. Cakes are relished. Del Duca again goes
picking cherries. Two men from the main
body of company visit us. They have rifles
with them and are anxious to get some
practice. Maloy and Himpler think that is a
good idea and will do likewise. They know of
a big hollow in the ground near where Del
Duca is in the cherry tree, which can be used
as a range. They go off to shoot. I had been
writing, at which I continue. Our guns send
over seven or eight shots in rapid succession.
As usual, the first one coming unexpected
startles. After that I do not pay any attention to
them. I can distinctly hear the report of our
rifles from the range. Suddenly a big
explosion near us. I say "To-day's souvenir
from Fritz" and think no more of it. A second
later Maloy and Himpler, pale and excited,
panting for breath come back. The trouble is
that they had been using an unexploded Stokes
trench mortar shell, which lay in the
excavation, for a target. What I thought was
Fritz‘s shell was the detonation from the
187trench mortar projectile which went off
immediately. How they saved their lives they
did not know. No one was hurt, by a miracle.
A bigger hole was made, dirt and pebbles flew
fifty feet into the air. The boys ran at the rate
of a thousand yards a minute. If these things
are kept up, the company will have no need to
go into the trenches. They will destroy
themselves. Fritz makes no return of our
shelling which ceased when work of single
gun is finished. Supper, greatly delayed, meat,
bread, butter, coffee. Potatoes come up as I am
leaving to go back to camp. Take a few and
eat on road. Write. Take a stroll in the woods
to Frenchman’s camp. We tease each other.
Dusk coming on. Must return to await orders.
They are, to move to our night quarters. Take
up post in trench and await further orders.
When we are settled, runner comes with
written orders to make up packs, be ready to
move. We are to go back to barracks and be
relieved by 2nd and 3rd platoon men. I am
undeniably happy to know that I will be in a
comparatively safe place to-morrow. My pack
is ready rolled. I had not opened it since
arrival. Boys prepare to move. "Hullo, Del
Duca? a message." Capt. directs that you and
your squad remain, unroll packs an make
yourselves comfortable for the night. I am
again disappointed. It is a quiet night, Perhaps
nothing will happen to me, either today or to-
morrow. I put my trust in the Lord. What the
boys say about the National Army and its
commanders would make a stone image blush.
Nothing can be done, however, but to stay.
Guard is posted. I had intended to ask for 12-2
watch. It is arranged that Rubin and I are on
duty then without my knowledge. Pleased at
the thought that I will be awake to usher in the
first anniversary of my Wedding Day. I lie
down to sleep at 10. Say a prayer of thanks for
the happiness, good health and prosperity,
which have been ours in the past year and ask
that continued happiness be given my loved
ones by our lord. Sleep for a little more than
an hour. Up at 11:45 to take my post. It is a
silent world I look upon from our trench. The
church bell strikes the hour of twelve. I say a
prayer in the presence of Rubin. A thanks
offering. I am not mindful of the presence of
Rubin. I know he understands. I talk of Leah
and of home, her goodness, her virtues, of
baby and our past pleasures. How happy I am
to-night that my hands are still unstained with
blood. I do not long for home. I would only
ask the privilege of seeing the tears in Leah's
eyes when she receives my flowers to-day,
please God. I would be content with hearing
her say "Dear Boy". Silence for a few minutes.
Reagan comes up to tell us gas alarm signal is
to be given on a brass shell case, which he
gives us. Two aeroplanes are up. One is a
Hun. I hear his motors distinctly. At right
angles to him, and making for him is one of
our machines. They manoeuver for position
for half an hour until we cannot hear them
from the distance. Again it is a quiet, moonlit
night. Only sound of two husbands confiding
in each other and the occasional "put, put"
from a machine gun. Meet a Frenchman who
talks German quite well. Practice shooting
with a pistol. Hit bullseye, first shot. To bed at
2, undoing my pack, extra blanket making a
warm bed. Two hours on duty pass quickly
and I am hardly aware of the cold.