Author: Thomas James Richards.
Date: 24th October 1914.
Nationality: Australian.

Saturday Oct 24th I have written an 8 page letter to Mary Ffrench which contains astounding profound
language & Spring delights. I went out on deck this morning at 6. a.m. and had a run around, but I don't feel like excessing, my muscles do not work as freely as of yore. I wonder if it is due to the past 12 months troubles around Sydney, or Manly in particular. I hardly think so as I was not lively in South Africa last trip  (1913). My back seems to go a little wrong at the slightest twist, just about the pelvis region. I walked the deck with Sullivan for 40 minutes this morning and let him talk  on the necessary ability of commercial travelling the free-masonary that exists, for instance, the men sometimes meet and work together and if one man leaves the party and rushes on ahead he is often branded as a pointer. This may possibly exist amongst the 2nd and poorer class, talkative & swelled headed traveller. with whom Sullivan evidently associates. He mentioned that when Murphy (a solicitor now a member of the A.M.C) was called up on the telephone & told that there was a vacancy in the section Murphy wired, "Present at court but will report at 2pm." That afternoon Murphy was out drilling in 
the ranks. George Hills
case was similar he was
confidential clerk in a
large solicitors office drawing
£4.15.0 a week, he came
out & saw Dr. Newmarsh at
9 o'clock one morning next
day he was plain Private
Hill drilling & sleeping with
a lot of unthinking xxx worth less kind of fellows.
Washing one cloths as xxxx
on board is a terrible proposition
under such extreme difficulties
There are, I understand, some 14
cases of venereal disease at present in
the isolation hospital, and it is
said to be a small number for as
many men.
The shipping company have
contracted to provide the men with
food at 1/9 per day sargents at 3/6.
 
The clippers have been hard at work
getting the fellows heads cleared
I will, at the first opportunity, get
my head cleared right off it will
prevent one from becoming lousy.
I've heard there is are a number
of lousy men in the infantry
already.
The Bag-pipers & the brass band
are well appreciated each day &
night when playing of from the promenade
deck to the crowd in the
aft well deck.
The concerts given off the same
place are good but under
extreme difficulties.
There are 10 cases in the 
general hospital and from 
25 to 40 out door patients
called for treatment this 
morning. The following lines from Munsey's
Magazine struck me as. being strangely
fitting to my own state of uneasiness.
An Idyl of Idleness
I cannot work in the City –
That prison of brick & stone,
Where distraction waits at the outer gates
And speaks through the telephone.
The labours labors of men only vex me;
The pleasures of men tempt me sore,
And I fret and whine for the smell of pines pine
And the sound of the sea on the shore shore.
                    __________
I cannot work in the country –
There's so much else to be done;
The flowers I've sown see that I am alone
And beckon me into the sun,
The waves roar a hearty welcome;
There is lure in the shade of each tree,
"I could slave", I say, "were I hidden away
With nothing but walls to see!"
 
I cannot work on the ocean –
It is easy to understand
How that swaying deep rocks the will
to sleep ;
But I cannot work on the land.
I know I am not an idler –
I could drudge were the conditions fair ;
But Summer reigns in my tingling veins,
And I can't work anywhere! 
