Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 15 May 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 


Wed. May 15, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
Up at 6:00. Find a stranger at my feet.
Tommy has come in during the night drunk,
and lay down in the first convenient spot in all
his clothes. I cannot find one of my leggings.
Must wake him up in my search for it. I find
an odd one under him. Put it on without
further search so as not to be late for
formation. We must all fall in for Reveille
from now on, taking with us our mess kits.
Captain commanding company. Breakfast.
Bacon bread, coffee. Bread ration is sufficient.
Will drill with short pack containing one
blanket and poles only. Not very much time in
which to roll them. Formation at 7:15. A
lengthy morning inspection similar to English
style. Men criticized severely in all platoons.
Officers insist on men shaving more
frequently. Start out for drill. Major picks out
a site for us on a road. Lieut. Jepsen not in
good humour. Capt. leaves for a while during
which we get some brand new stunts from
Lieut. He is a stickler for manual, which he
can do very well. Gives us a new brand of
physical exercise with a rifle. Lieut. with us in
so far as rests are concerned. It is very hot in
the sun, a distinct difference between local
climate and that of last place. Blue skies and
beautiful landscapes. Men and women at work
in the fields, birds singing everywhere,
airplanes flying overhead. Company
assembled at 10. We go back to respective
billets, remove packs, fall out again looking as
neat as possible under the circumstances. Led
off by Captain to a large field to the west of
town where we are drilled in close order in
Company and platoons to prepare ourselves
for inspection by British Brigadier General.
Our own General appears on the scene. Seems
to have been observing us and comes up to
Captain to compliment him on our work.
There is a look of the greatest pleasure on the
face of the CO. English at ease is discarded
from today. Rest a few minutes before
Englishman arrives with our Major who orders
open ranks and an inspection is given us.
Brig., Gen., Major, Adj., and Captain walk
along, look intently into each man's eyes. I
notice Gen. hesitates, for a moment, as he
passes me, while I am gazing steadily at neck
of man in front. When his trip is finished he
asks that we do a bit of manual for him. Capt.
puts lots of pep into it, then platoon leaders
put us through a few capers to please authority
who pays little attention to us. They examine
Sgt.‘s equipment. A fervent prayer is said by
us that his mess kit be found with a week's
collection of grease on it etc. When he is
satisfied that we have drilled before this, we
gather around him forming three sides of a
square. Major tells us that Gen. has something
to say to us. In substance he says that he is
glad to see us here. Then he tells us that he has
discovered what he was looking for when he
looked at each of us in passing. He has
discovered we are all dreadfully keen to get
into the game. He knows we are going to
punch it. His speech is one that does credit to a
schoolboy. He rides away in state, leaving the
fate of France and England in our hands. A
hundred scout planes are up during the
ceremony. Three observation balloons, a new
sight to us, are up in the distance. We are
dismissed for the morning after being led back by Lieut. On the way back we are reprimanded
for singing a proscribed song. Have mess.
Stew, bread, coffee. Have a half hour in which
to rest. Ordered to form armed with towel and
clean clothing to be in readiness for a bath.
Hike about two miles to next village. Arrive at
bath house wet from perspiration. Must wait
for time. Lie around, read newspaper, take a
little nap. Admitted to bathhouse in groups of
twelve. Undress standing on a muddy floor.
Into adjoining chamber, which has 6 small
shower heads, size of 25 cent piece, each
having exactly nine holes, under which two
men must bathe in 4 minutes. It seems
impossible to accomplish but the miracle is
worked somehow and quite a satisfactory bath
was obtained. Dress and wait outside feeling
refreshed. It occurs to me to ask an
Englishman where I can buy a money order.
He directs me to ......... , where there is a
canteen and post office. Too far away to go
tonight. Company goes back by platoons at a
slower, cooler pace. Observation balloons still
up. Rest, write, Mess when entire company is
back. Cheese, bread, coffee, rice. Find a spot
in a nearby field where I sit under a tree and
write until dark. Take a hurried shave. Go out
for a little stroll after I make my bed. Around
the corner two Canadians who have had long
experience at the front are telling stories to a
group of our men. Plausible ones, full of
cheer. A beautiful night, sky full of stars and a
fine moon. An airplane is heard overhead in
the semi-darkness. We make an effort to find
same. Look for a long time until we see a light
which travels overhead in direction from
which sound is coming. A most interesting
half hour spent watching it. Go to bed long
after bunkmate. Awaken him. Corporals come
in engaged in a heated discussion which
awakens everybody. A Boche machine gun is
heard overhead, followed by sound of shells
bursting in air and the hum of our own
machines going for it. All get up, crowd in
doorway to look. See nothing. Quiet.
Repetition of incident. Madame out and
watching this time, talking excitedly.
Searchlights play and bombs burst in air. Astir
for a long time hoping to see and hear more.
Artillery quiet. No activity of any kind today,
Practice firing within our own areas.