Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 5 May 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:


Sun. May 5, 1918
Weather: Raining, Mild
Health: Good
Up at 7:00. Breakfast in rain. Bacon, bread,
coffee. Back to billets. Write. Finish letter to
Sachs. Take a nap. Men go to church. Quiet.
Awake after half hour just as Fallon comes to
call for me. He tells me that a man is wanted
at battalion headquarters to figure payrolls.
Would I like to have him recommend me for
work? I consent. Go up with him. Not wanted
to appear personally. Name only desired. To
be called when required. Come back to
quarters. Write to Leah. Stay indoors until
Mess. Stew, bread, coffee. Get second helping.
Satisfied. Sun comes out. Looks fair for trip to
........ . Urged to start off at once. Will not do
so until I have finished writing. Do so at 3:00.
Looks doubtful. Reilly alone anxious to go
with me. I mail my letters and set out along
main highway, slicker on arm. Do not go far
before it rains. Stops and starts again. Pass
along road as officers are practicing at
miniature rifle range. Go up and down many
hills, pass through many villages all built as
ours. Look down on peaceful little hamlets
from high road. In ........ many trucks are
stationed. Men evidently bunk in them when
not on duty. A supply base. A steady driving
rain now. Almost tempted to turn back, when
a car driven by a civilian comes along bound
for town. Now many Poilus are to be see in
billets in village through which we pass.
Company of English returning from action to
billets. Pass two companies of Frenchmen
returning. The most tired, hard-worked
looking set of men I ever saw. Look as if they
had not slept for a week. Arrive in ......... . Tip
chauffeur a franc, which he does not expect.
We insist. Meet some of our company men.
Start through streets of city with no idea of
direction. More officers than I have ever seen
before. Grow tired saluting. A big place where
one can buy anything one wishes. Step into a
shop, buy picture to railroad station where we
see two companies of English passing, field
kitchen trailing behind. Walk along canal
bank. Into a shop which we buy out of
crackers and get some candy to stay our
appetites until supper. Worried about whether
we can get out of town after 9 at night. Decide
to stop at restaurant so we can be free to leave
at any time after 8. Into a greasy little
restaurant on a side street, full of Australians,
English and a few of our boys. Order pork
cutlets, potato chips, coffee, bread. In addition
2 fried eggs, more bread, potatoes and coffee, or 4 meals in all, excellent in quality,
satisfying in quantity for 8 fr. 60. Raining
again. Lose our way. Put right by Tommy.
Shelter in estaminet. Have a bottle of stout.
Reilly angry with me for not drinking and
urging him not to. English inform us we are
being cheated in exchange. See comfort
stations in streets, a thing which I had heard
about but could not believe. Get away at 7.
Raining very hard. Our hats are no protection.
Water runs down our necks. Reilly silent. I
finally consent to take another drink to bring
him back into humor. An exceptionally good
glass of beer. After a little confusion find road
leading out of town. Entertainments for
soldiers are numerous, concerts, plays, etc.
Walk only a short distance. Get a lift on top of
a London bus driven by a servicemen. He
quickly picks up a load. All of us chip in a
penny as a tip for him. Make excellent time to
......... which is only three quarters of an hour
walk to billets. Stop at canteen. More beer for
Reilly. Stock up on candy and cake. Walk rest
of distance leisurely. Still light when we return
to tell boys what a good time we had. A long
time since I had had the pleasure of ordering
food I wanted of which there was sufficient to
excess. Give fellows some candy. Lie about
for a while telling of our excursion. Go to bed.
Sleep well. Riding down road on bus seems
just like a Sunday afternoon's ride down 5th
Avenue in New York. Only weather to spoil a
perfect afternoon. Thoughts go back to Leah at
home while I go on outing with stranger. See
extent of preparations made to take up new
positions and block advance of enemy in case
of retreat by Allies. Good news from front.
Our men taking offensive and making gains.
Aeroplanes numerous in afternoon. Sustained
firing from late afternoon through night.
