
Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 3 June 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:


Mon. Jun. 3, 1918
Weather: Fine, Warm
Health: Good
Up at 6:00. Struggle into line at Reveille. CO
sees me but does not look long enough to
inspire him to penalize me. Realises I am not
expected to be prompt, having worked all day
yesterday. Breakfast will be taken with old
platoon. So will rest of day's meals. Rice,
bread, coffee. Suggest that since I returned,
meals are not as advertised. Perhaps I mm a
jinx. Told by Haight that SOS class will
assemble at usual place at 7:30. Inform the
boys. I will be excused for duty at Batt. Hdqrs.
Lieut. complains that good men are taken
away from his. I wonder does he include me?
In office at 7:30. Fox comes later. Almost
finished with counting individual sums. Next
task is to total columns and verify addition and
strike grand total. Lt. in early, apparently
pleased with progress we have made. Gives no
instructions to convert into francs, making
extensions for each item. That lengthens the
job considerably. I had counted on completing
original share of the work early in afternoon,
perhaps doing much needed washing and then
going to town to buy a wedding ring for
myself and a few toys for baby, with a
souvenir for Leah. Will take a chance on being
turned back for lack of pass. Gas Lt. about,
warned by Sgt. Major to put on mask for usual
half hour period. I cannot work comfortably in
it. Rather than inconvenience myself, I shut
door and listen for footsteps on the stairs.
Work till 12. Lt., second in command at SOS
school, comes to ask about his pay. He is a
peculiar man. Appears not to know me. A
good mess, yet not up to standard of camp on
farm. Boiled beef, potatoes, boiled onions,
bread, coffee. Report to office immediately
after. On homestretch now. Work is being held
up by me. I am not able to add a single column
of figures correctly. Fox, whom I have always
excelled, is in good form fortunately, for the
success of assignment, but cruel to my
feelings. I am annoyed at this in spite of
myself. Lt. makes his afternoon visit. Gives
me a ray of hope that I may be spared drill in
the future. Payrolls will no longer be figured at
Batt. Hdqrs. He will head a new department, a
statistical bureau which will take care of all
clerical work for entire regiment. One
company clerk from each organization to be
taken by him for permanent duty. To be
stationed at ........., according to plans. Would
like to take me in preference to Sweet, our Co.
Clerk. I cannot believe my ears for a time.
Asks me about qualifications. Tell him on
request what I did as civilian. Considered a
fairly good printer, acquainted with forms.
Have printed some for Navy Dept. Will let me
know. It is quite natural that my work should
become worse from here on. Delay is such that
supper time overtakes me before we are done. To show my appreciation for his consideration
for me, I would like to surprise Lt. with
completed work in morning. Ask Fox to come
back after mess and finish sums in American
money. Agrees. Mess. Bully beef, cheese,
bread, coffee. Keep my appointment with Fox
at 7. He has not yet arrived. Lt. is there. He
would like to have amounts in Frs. by 9
tomorrow morning. I am most anxious to
please him. Will work until dark. When Fox
comes I tell him what Lt. asks. He is as mad as
a hatter. Throws down his pencil. Refuses to
go on. Let him alone. Tell him only to report
his decision to Sgt. who will get me other help
and let him digest that until better reason
prevails. He goes out to find Lt. and talk with
him. Comes back a quarter hour later, nice as
you please, brings a bar of chocolate as a
peace offering. I am having difficulty with a
column of figures in Frs. cannot make it
correspond with our money. Capt. comes in to
fill his pen. Try to help him. When he leaves
he asks me what I hear from home. I tell him.
Asks if I would like to be home. Very much, if
only for an hour. Elated that he shows a good
human trait. Forgive him for his past sins
against me. Work until it is too dark to see, on
the same column of figures. I an getting along
very poorly with what I promised to have done
by AM. Quit and decide to ask Supply Sgt.
procure me assistance in morning which he
had proffered earlier in the evening. Try to get
a cup of coffee at the ration dump. None to be
had. Go to quarters. Reagan waiting for me.
So hungry that I ask Dougherty for a piece of
the hard tack he is chewing. Fill my water
bottle for my morning ablutions, arrange
blankets and get into tent before Reagan with
the hope that I fall asleep before he begins to
chatter. That is a habit of my own that now has
proven hateful to me. I like to be alone with
my thoughts at night. I am in for another
discussion with my bunkmate. We talk for an
hour on the causes of war. Reagan has studied
the subject. Nationalism is to blame. I defend
my point of view. Commercialism is the chief
factor, Nationalism subordinate. He is
annoyed with me. Bids me goodnight. I make
the best of the rest of the night. My eyes so
tired at the end of day's work that I am
reminded of the old days in the shop when it
was a daily occurrence. While at work,
subconsciously I worry about Leah and the
baby. A new order about movement has been
issued. List of articles to be carried in pack or
worn is issued from Orderly Room. Do not
know what has been going on outside of
Hdqrs. office. I say a prayer that today's order
is what will eventually be decided upon. An
air raid during the night which I do not hear. I
am too tired to do anything but sleep well. Lt.
Jensen leaves us as per RSO.