Author: Thomas James Richards.
Date: 5th March 1917.
Nationality: Australian.

March 5th. 1917.    Monday. Parade in Sam Brown and haversack with towel and soap for Baths at 8.50 a.m. A good bath and return to Parade ground where the officers were drawn up in line and told how to stand to attention and turn to the right or left by numbers. The instructor was clear and interesting; his remarks and detail being clear and well defined. We were first shown the correct position of "Attention":- -  Heels together toes at an angle of 45 degrees knees well straightened and hold back shoulders well back body braced chin well in and hands to side with fingers loosely closed. Especial stress is lain of the feet knees and chin also shoulders. Turning by numbers followed the squad calling loudly the time. This afternoon it was elemetary squad drill commencing with saluting both to the front and in passing a given point. Officers were called out of the line later to give commands and detail of "forming fours" marching 30 in. "step short" 2 etc.etc. The afternoon was a little tiring but of much value to me even though boring to the older and trained men. In the matter of getting men to "Quick march" together and to take up their dressing when "falling in" or halted much instruction was given. The word of command in the "Quick March" is the essential matter. When a bad start is made such as all the column not starting out together with the left foot, a halt should be made seeing that the rear started off with the front. "Right" "left" and about turning by numbers disclosed nothing new but was a welcome refresher. At the 1.40 p.m. parade with "drill order" we went, 48 strong, back onto the drill ground were saluting by numbers was carried out and some remarks on the different styles of saluting from a cycle or horse. Then followed some marching tests, to show up how difficult it is to obtain a uniform step of 30 inches and also to get proper direction. Officers were called out of the squad to give detail of points such as forming fours and changing directions. It was a good days tuition. At 5 o'clock all ranks listened to a lecture by Capt. Campbell on DISCIPLINE. He was forceful without being dramatic; and clear without any great flow of eloquence. He never lagged at any stage and was entertaining as well as instructive. I gathered the following notes from the lecture:-- "Discipline in a broad sense means training and common knowledge. In an Army there are two essentials that go towards the making of efficiency; they are organisation and discipline. Organisation is for those in higher circles than we are placed in; but discipline comes right home to our own door and it is for discipline that we are entirely responsible for. From the lance corporal right up through the N.C.O.s and the officers to the head of the Battalion lies the road to good discipline. Each section commander must extract from his section a respect that smooths the way for the Platoon sergeant, and likewise the sergeant helps the platoon commander who is responsible for the platoon's discipline to the Colonel. Historical facts shows clearly that good discipline means success. The Romans of early times paid strict attention to discipline and by so doing conquored and held the world with easy, until they grew lax, lost their grip over their soldiers and came down the hill of fame. Oliver Cromwell, Englands great and strong man accounted for his success by hard and fast discipline. The Loyalists were overcome by Cromwell's superior discipline and eventually had to give way. Cromwell was the first man to train and equip a regular army. It is said Australian discipline, which we must all agree with, is anything but good and is much commented upon by all military authorities in Europe, who have seen them; It should be a lot better. The personal element will not be injured or spoilt; by instilling better discipline, the opposite, in fact, will be the outcome as the personal element so valuable to a fighting force is always their it is part of your nature and will not be affected by discipline. Mercantile and commercial businesses, 
now seen on so large a scale, are insisting on discipline, in conjunction with organisation for the success of their affairs. What mark distinguishes the quality of the different troops? Behaviour and respect for authority. Too much personal respect for ability and the man is considered by the men in the ranks. They must be taught not to respect the individuality of their officers; but respect the position they hold in the army. Australians always avoid the necessarty for saluting when possible. Well discipline and trained troops will always salute properly and move about with smartness seeing to the cleanlyness of their uniform and equipment. The Guards for example are proud of their spick and span appearance, and proud also to belong to a Regiment in which discipline is strict and a pleasure. Good troops are good on parade. Australians are unwilling and sluggish on parade. Reluctant to do their best. It is necessary to check, and tell regularly, our men about smartness and appearance. Make them see to their puttees, buttons, hats etc. Take a pride in your platoon and see that the men do also; Make them feel that their Company and Battalion should be the smartest and the best of them all. Endurance is brought out by discipline and training. During the American Civil War the young bloods of the North formed themselves  into keen armys but when they set out without training for the front they soon emptied their water bottles got tired and went to rags along the road a straggling, useless mob. Men must be - 6 -
taught to carry and reserve their rations as well as take urgent care over their water bottles. Australian marching is mostly ragged and disjointed. Men fall out at will solely from the want of endurance instilled into them through discipline. With the possibility of open warfare now being brought in, there is a greater need than ever for officers to have absolute controle over their men. Australians will have much difficult is retaining their fighting name in open war as they as so likely to get out of hand. Obedience: - - Instant obedience is essential and shows the power which the officer has over his men, Men must not hesitate or show a reluctancy. Individuality must be strong enough to efficently hold men. This must be got through firmness in handling the men. The proper use of authority is a factor in a good platoon. Dont be sarcastic or nasty it irritates the good men and the bad ones take no notice of it. Jump right into them and tell them the correct way to do things and quitely check the faults by details and patience. Knowledge an officer or N.C.O. must have he cant possibility have too much of it and they must know all about their work and more about it than the men underneath. Book learning is good, but there must be observation, thought and careful study to complete one education. The least thing to rely upon for discipiline is punishment, such as extra parades and fatigues etc. Dont have likes and dislikes for particular men treat them all alike. Officers must hold themselves above other ranks and have a diginity in keeping with the position they hold. Bad language to the men only display to them your own ignorance. Be careful of your own behaviour in your leisure hours especially when outside or in the presence of lower ranks. Close order drill is the better for getting good discipline. The behaviour of your men either on the parade ground or on the streets is a reflection of your own teaching. - 7 - Dinner at 6.30 p.m. and the evening is free.
 