Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 23 May 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 


Thu. May 23, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
Up at 6:00. Another event in the life of a
soldier has come to life and I have gone my
way as prescribed in the IOR without mishap.
I have slept in a tent and still survive. Only the
back of my neck was a trifle cold. Noise
unaccustomed to. An opportunity to put into
practice a long cherished desire of mine. I
wash my feet in the morning dew on the grass.
Feels fine. Dry with a handkerchief. Towel is
precious, difficult to wash. Assemble for
report. Go to farm house to wash. Fill water
bottle. English look at tub in which I have just
bathed. "Only one" says he and proceeds to
use it. Back for breakfast at 7:00. Judge
distance by fact that we left at 6:15 and returns
so late. No loafing while there. Breakfast.
Good bacon, jelly, coffee. The boy‘s coffee
goes to the right spot. They make it better than
the accredited cooks. Lots of time to eat but an
objection is that I cannot let feet hang. My
stomach is all doubled up either creeping or
crawling or sitting with no back support and
outstretched legs. I think of building a bench.
Clean my gun thoroughly. It has misted a little
from the dew. Will occur every night I
presume. Air blankets. Take a peek at
porcupine. Himpler goes back to Company for
information wanted by Lt. and to report.
Remainder of men except sick and kitchen
help go out with both Lieuts. to survey our
sector of trenches. Leave blouses behind. Take
guns which prove a nuisance. Jump over trenches until I am sore in every limb. A
bewildering maze of ditches some completed,
others under construction by Chinese coolies. I
have seen many coolies in France but I have
yet to see one of then throw a shovelful of dirt.
Study wiring systems, locations and
designation of MG emplacements, dugouts,
drains, CTs, etc. Every one of the ditches we
see is dug with the precision and neatness of
work done for exhibition. All very carefully
studied out and ordered beforehand. Miles of
them. It makes one dizzy to walk through
them, following their many turns and
deviations. A trip of 11 and one half miles
over battalion sector takes 2 and one half
hours to complete. We rest for a few minutes
at end. Soon after leaving for the return trip
Fritz sends over 1/2 dozen or so gas shells not
a half mile from where we were. After a horse
corral? With the aid of glasses, I believe we
can see artillery. Hurry back. It looks like a
shower or thunderstorm coming. Mess. Stew,
bread, coffee. Very good. I vote to continue
cooks in office. Rest. Write a letter to Leah
about my new life. Nap while I await call to
drill. None forthcoming until 3:00. Maley(?)
awakes me telling me that Himpler has
returned from Company Hdqrs. with
confirmation of the news that Al Ferguson is
dead. Anthrax, rarest of diseases is the cause. I
had noticed swelling on neck and small
pimple. Thought it was mumps. Capt.
endeavoring to ship body home. Another
casualty in company. Jim Hamilton, Corp.
detailed to baths at ........ hit by shell in arm
and leg during an air raid in place last night.
Enemy raises the devil by night in our
Company billets too. Keeps every one alert
and ready to move on. Gas masks worn at
alert. Clears up sufficiently for us to go out for
observation. Do not take blouses though
needed. In open the wind blows over us till we
are chill. Taking bearings. My job for which I
volunteer is to pace along to find openings in
work location, and conditions, number of
holes, etc. Lt. fussy. Most of the information I
give him has been obtained with zealous
fidelity to rule. It angers me that what he is
doing takes so much of his attention that he
cannot listen to me. We go back at 4:30. Write
until mess, finishing Leah's letter. Supper.
Marmalade, bread, cheese, coffee. Second
helping of bread and cheese. Write until 9:00.
Help Gillece to construct a bench of logs. He
has put in some work on it. We chop down a
tree of 6 in. diameter for crosspieces. I do so
with a pang of remorse. It is very cold. Damp
and misty. If idle and not moving it stings
toes. Guard posted. Go to bed. Overcoat for
bottom bedding. Sleep with blouse on.
Shoulders and feet are cold. Remainder of
body warm. Fritz has taken a vacation. During
the day no activity noticeable. It is very quiet.
Not many planes up. A few shots fired at long
intervals. Restless during the night from cold
and trouble with the blankets, which insist on
moving. Listen intently for sound of German
planes. A fascinating sport. I fall asleep. He
comes at 4 o'clock. Goes away without doing
any damage. Not a favorable night for doing
any kind of work, except scouting and
patrolling. I forget a duty to baby and Leah. In
the morning I observe that settled on each leaf
of the trees in forest is black dust. No coal in
these parts. It must be powdered charcoal
floating about in air and settling on objects
about countryside. A sham battle is fought in
our grounds by Tommy, which is more play
than war. We indulge in the sport, and I have
always laughed at one for lacking in
seriousness.