Author: Thomas James Richards.
Date: 9th March 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

March 9th.    Friday. Morning:--9 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. Physical by the Cockney Sergeant was very good; I hope to learn a number of good exercises from him. Musketry by Capt. Maltby. He dealt with the correct method of aiming from the prone position, and explained the respective position of the two sights in relation to the target by pieces of cardboard. One representing the bulls' eye, one the fore sight and one the back sight. These pieces are slipped in behind one another and clearly show the faults of bad aiming. Afternoon:--Route march and Squad drill. The instructor had me out giving command to the squad. He was very (always is, in fact) patient and shows considerable interest in his work which reflects upon the officers and makes them keen and interested also. Lecture by Col. Stephens on COURT MARTIAL. The Commonwealth Defense Act provides for all troops to be tried under Military Law for all and any crimes committed while a soldier from the moment they sail from Australian under the command of a British regular. But where the death sentence is passed such cannot be put into effect without the santion of the Governor General of Australia. There are also other modifications. There are three different grades and formations of Courts Martials; but the one most common to us here in the field, is the Field General Court Martial it mostly consists of three officers, one at least of its members should rank a Captain or - 13 - Major. This form of court cannot try an officer. An officer must arrest an officer. Non commission officers may arrest non-commission  officers. A Lance Corporal cannot arrest a private even he must go to the orderley sergeant or to the sergeant major. 18 hours notice, must be given a prisoner to prepare his defense before his case can be called at F. G. C. M. The charge sheet is first carefully examined to see that it is in proper order before the prisoner is called in. The accused is asked if he has any objection to the formation of the court or to the members thereon. Everyone is then "sworn in" and swear that they will not discuss the case or any of the evidence given outside of the court. If the prisoner pleads guilty the case is decided upon the summary evidence. If "Not Guilty," the summary evidence is not to be used other than to prevent witnesses from contradictory evidence, and as a check. The prisoner can either make a statement without being sworn or give evidence on oath. He cannot be cross examined on "statement", but on oath carried more weight in the court. Witnesses can be recalled to give fresh evidence only. The court is cleared for the court to discuss the charge. If the prisoner is found "not guilty" he is at once presented before the court and dismissed. But if "guilty" the sentence is written on charge sheet, though the prisoner is not informed until the evidence and papers connected with the case is confirmed by Div. Hdqs. Civilian witnesses can be called. An officer can defend the accused and cross examine all witnesses; but other ranks can only instruct prisoner and ask questions through the accused. Not direct questions to either the court or witness giving evidence. If the accused has good ground for objecting to be tried by the different courts his case can go right up to the King for hearing. After dinner to-night the officers after two days warning were called upon to speak on the "Care of Arms". Lieut. Sampson was first called and he dealt satisfactorily with the subject as Company in Attack with two platoon frontage lay down in "Musketry No. 1." Several others were called upon and showed that they were more familiar with the subject matter than they were with speaking. I am gaining much information; but there is so much to grasp that I fear my practical work will suffer in consequence. We get so very little time to study at all. At night time there is no convenient place to read or write. 