Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 26 July 1918.

Nationality: Australian

Text: 


Fri. Jul. 26, 1918
Weather: Fair, Rain
Health: Good
Up at 7:00. Breakfast. Bread, Karo, coffee.
Doughnuts, 4 of them by a ruse. I am caught at
it but not scolded. After breakfast, wash,
shave, walk up to Battalion Hdqrs. to talk to
some of the boys, whom I see standing
around, and I am called by Lt. Griffiths. He
hails me 3 or 4 times, before I am aware that
he wants me, and then I must be told by the
men. He wants to know whether I have had a
good time in ........ yesterday and if I had time
enough to do all I wanted to. Of course I have.
He wants to give me a pass for Saturday also
and wants me to take advantage of it. Think it
a good opportunity to mail my packages at the
railroad. Thank him and promise to ask for a
pass to-morrow. In quarters, begin to write.
Sgt. Kirchner announces a formation.
Everybody will go with him to patrol by
daylight over territory to be gone over to-
night. The problem before us tonight will be to
get by F Company's sentry in dark. We go out
in three or four sections. All present but two
men. We follow railroad to a French camp,
going down hill. Lose the path. Ask our way,
and are put right by the French. Come upon a
most beautiful spot. A farm house and farm in
the heart of the woods. A natural clearing,
surrounded four sides by the woods, level as a
241billiard table with a lake and a bath house at
eastern end. Is this war? Hardly. We sit down
on the banks of the lake, pick huckleberries
and raspberries and those who are inclined to,
undress and go for a swim. Deep and cold.
Excellent swimming. I wish that I could go in
too, but rash on my foot prevents me from
bathing. Lie on the grass on the banks, talking
about how people pay money for a vacation
like to-day's and how remarkable that soldiers
can lie as peacefully as this. Fifteen minutes
from the front line trenches is a spot which
war has never touched and probably never
will, it is so sheltered. The cackle of hens and
the crow of roosters can be distinctly heard
from where we are. I take my ease, lying on
my stomach in the sun. I would like to lie
there for the rest of the day. Angry when the
Sgt. calls us to go back. A warm climb up the
hill. Five minutes' walk hides the lake and
farm from view completely. Shortly after, we
get back, mess is ready. Write in the
meantime. Dinner. Steak, squash, bread,
coffee. Plenty of seconds. Write again until we
are ordered out to report to office. Lieut. wants
everybody to go out to the different posts to
familiarize themselves with the positions and
the roads which lead to them. Kirchner, Thurn
and the Lt. each take out a party. I am with the
Lt. We go to where Capt. Brooks had his
Hdqrs. in the woods. A pleasant walk. Lt.
converses with us. At the barracks he stays to
talk with Lt. Blackwell for half an hour.
Schlesinger and I talk about Capt. Mills, while
we wait for the return trip. It looks like a
shower coming up. Catches us on the road at
an ammunition dump. From there we must run
a half mile in the open to a dugout. An old gun
emplacement handier. We find shelter there
for all. Gun is gone but there are at least 800
75 shells in the racks, powder and all other
accessories to artillery. Interested enough to
ask a lot of questions most of which remain
unanswered. Meet some of the advance party
of the Division. Scouts and engineers. Quite
wet. Rain stops in ten minutes. Go back by a
different road and when we are dismissed we
are cautioned to remain near our quarters to be
in readiness to assemble at 8:45 for patrol
formation. Write until supper. Excellent beef
stew, bread, coffee. Write again till I am
finished. Make an effort to pack up laces to
mail home. Have five empty tobacco tins, get
paste from Tallon at Battalion Headquarters
and go to Lt. Griffiths' shack to work. He is
not in, so I do nothing, for I want to show him
the laces I have bought before I wrap them up.
While waiting for him to come in, I write a
letter to Mama, which keeps me busy till it is
time to go back to barracks for roll-call. Sgt.
calling out names. I am able to answer present.
The party is destined not to go out. Two
officers, breathless, hatless and perspiring are
with Lt. Griffiths, telling him of a most
regrettable accident, which has just occurred.
Capt. Mills and a number of others were
demonstrating and practicing with rifle
grenades, when one exploded prematurely in
the cup, blowing off part of Capt. Mills‘ face
and the arm of Johnson, the company
mechanic. The Capt. is in bad condition,
unconscious and breathing hard. His life is
despaired of. Only thing that can be done for
him is to make him as comfortable as possible.
The camp is all upset. We are shocked beyond
expression. Officers and orderlies running
about in search of doctors and medical men.
Groups all over camp trying to learn
particulars of accident from G. Co men, who
are on official errands. Johnson‘s arm will
have to be amputated. He is remembered by
all as a fine fellow. Major busily engaged in
calming others down and making
arrangements for Capt.'s removal to ........ for
treatment. Lt. Griffiths only one remaining at
Battalion Headquarters, so it is doubtful if the
patrols go out. We are told to wait 15 minutes
or so till it is finally decided what to do. In the
242meantime, we discuss the many accidents
which have occurred in the regiment. It is as
much a matter of wonder as it is of regret.
Again the question is put "Are we fit to fight?"
Again the answer is "No". Reminiscences of
Capt. Mills, picturesque, lovable qualities.
There is hardly a man in the regiment who did
not know and like him. Sgt. returns to tell us
that we will not go out to-night. All G. Co
men with us are sent to their company to get
whatever information they can about condition
of Capt. for Lt. Griffiths. Rest of us go to bed.
I look through my OD and undershirt for
cooties. Find a nest of them in both shirts,
after a diligent search, which lasts for half an
hour. Then I go to bed. Tallon comes in to
disturb me as usual. Hardly half an hour after I
have cleaned out my shirt, I feel the vermin
crawl over my neck again, in my trousers too.
Scratch myself to sleep. In spite of the air of
sadness among the men, some of them tell
stories as on previous night. G. Co men come
in after 11 to report that Capt. Mills has been
removed to Base Hospital at ........ His
condition is unchanged. Recovery very much
in doubt. The late comers light candles to
make their beds by. Sounds like a Boche plane
overhead. Boys are nervous and argue that the
light should be put out at once. No one obeys.
They stay lit until they are no longer needed.
One or two of the big guns in the woods bark
at about this time. That and a few other shots
fired during the day, only activity. Practice
machine gun firing among the French.