Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 13 August 1918.
Nationality: Australian

Text: 

Tue. Aug. 13, 1918
Weather: Fine, Warm
Health: Good
Up at 6:00. During the night I have thought of
talking to the Colonel about myself. Breakfast.
Hash, bread, coffee. Must bolt my food to get
back to my tent in a hurry. They are waiting
for me to get out on a manoeuver with Hdqrs.
company, as a runner representing the
Battalion. The Colonel's orders. He has tired
of seeing us idle and lounge. I am in bad
temper. I am thinking of what might have
been. I don't care what happens to me, and
then I think of Leah and Cecilie and Mama
and I brace up. The youngest Lt. in the
regiment is in charge of the liaison
arrangements. He has a good imagination. The
field beyond the railroad track is the
battlefield. The railroad signalman's tower and
house is the signal receiving station. I am a
runner who will relay messages to
Headquarters. My post quarter mile distant
from the next. Loaf a half hour till the game is
staged, sitting by the well, talking to the
Frenchman who fills my canteen. A message
for me to take to the next post. Get there as
279fast as I can and return leisurely. Waiting for
further work to come my way, I watch
aeroplane battles and shelling of the Boche
planes which are attempting to come over.
Probably observing manoeuvers we are
executing. Orders come to stop the game and
prepare to move. Back to my tent with the
other men. Doherty has no orders. Lie down in
order to write a letter to Mama, which I will
keep about me until I can mail it. A tank load
of mail comes in, but we do not know if it is
destined for us. Everybody questions. All of us
are beginning to miss the letters from home.
Bothered by flies. Rig up a contrivance to
swing from the roof of our tent and force them
out. Talk to Doherty who is also writing home,
under the shade of our tent, till time for dinner.
The sky is clear blue against which aeroplanes
cannot be seen. Their motors can be heard all
morning, as can the exploding shells in the air.
Many and many machines of both sides up
and being shelled. None brought down as far
as we can learn. Dinner. Canned salmon,
string beans, hardtack, coffee. Newspaper man
comes. We get rations for to-night's supper.
Orders come to strike tents at 2 o'clock. Get
busy immediately. That done, read the
newspaper, which gives no news of
importance in connection with this front,
except that the ........ has been crossed by our
men. Lie in the sun which is so hot that it
burns. Try to sleep but the flies will not
permit. Put a coat over my face and hands. It
becomes altogether too hot. Officers are new.
McCleary helps to load truck. I am permitted
to sleep until the loading is complete. The
Colonel permits the men to drink bottled
mineral water, which otherwise he could have
left behind. It is the same stuff we were
warned not to drink yesterday. We get under
way with Lt. Haas leading. He is new to me.
Makes a poor impression, being too exact
about makeup of our packs. We halt for a
while to let a machine gun procession pass by.
Off by the long road. Not long before the
perspiration pours from me in a stream. We
fall out in a high spot, where there is a cool
breeze blowing. Where I would like to stop for
fifteen minutes or so, we are given only five
scant, before the lunatic, who leads the fast
march, has us going again. Much German
equipment and munitions scattered about in
the woods, wagons, limbers, etc. Through a
sandy road in the wood where the walking is
extremely hard. Dust clogs my nostrils and
parches my throat. For the next rest, we are
treated more generously, getting ten minutes,
quite necessary, for there is a big hill to climb.
It looks as though we are being led all over the
countryside. The Lt., as I suspect, does not
know the road to where he is going. He asks
two French wagoners. We climb up a big hill
going around instead of across its crest, into
the road leading into the forest, where the
scouts rested yesterday morning. Instead of
halting here or near this point, we go on up the
road and then downhill again into ........ . Pass
a dead horse in the square. Nothing left but the
skeleton, which smells horribly in the heat of
the fierce sun. This is what American soldiers
in the town have for company. I am beginning
to ask myself what of the vaunted superiority
of the Americans in the matter of sanitation in
his army camps. British headquarters is here,
not so far away for the smell of horse not to be
evident and what potency is lost, account of
the distance, is made up for by the pile of
putrid garbage in the gate of the house across
the street. Here are all the dignitaries of the
army that I know, and a few lazy ones. The
Colonel is there. It looks like the regimental
headquarters is to be established here. Find
Doherty, who has been marching near the
head of the column, and we ridicule the Lt. for
the roundabout road on which he has
conducted our march. But it is not over yet.
Find to our disgust we do not halt here. Our
home will be in the woods on the heights we
280just came down from. We swear heartily on
the tiresome, tortuous climb uphill. More
confusion until we are led into the path in the
wood. Fifty yds. in we are halted and told to
fall out, while our brilliant leader reconnoiters
for a camp site. That is not of itself a
laughable display of judgment, but, consider,
we are resting where the bones of two or three
horses decay in the sun. Our odors are fitting
with the strength of the odor. We have taken
our packs off and in five minutes they must be
slung again to march for another half hour. We
find the camp site, which is where the horse
corral once was. There are German dugouts
galore, little narrow trenches about a foot deep
to accommodate from one to three men. These
do not appeal to me. It reminds me too much
of sleeping in a grave. Looking about for a
tent site, we find some German newspapers,
very evident misrepresentation of the war
situation being the keynote of each editorial. I
read the paper while Mac and Doherty look
for a tent site. We will all bunk together.
Growing dark we complete the construction of
our abode for the night. What an old fuss Mac
is for a boy. Everything must be just so and to
his liking or it calls for a long speech from
him. Next comes the question of food. Coffee
is promised for 9 o'clock. The emergency
rations we brought with us will have to be
consumed, as it is too late to cook anything.
This ration consists of a can of beans for eight
men and a few biscuits apiece. We dig up
eight men, who beg a can of beans before the
man in charge of rations is quite ready to give
them up. Procure our mess after an eloquent
plea. It gives each of us only a few spoonfuls
of beans. Ask Sgt. Roth particulars of order to
send men back to the States and learn that it
was not necessary to recommend a non-com. I
could have been promoted for the orders, I am
told by Sgt. Roth, who is an authority on army
orders and paper work. That is another point
of knowledge, the neglect to acquaint myself
with, has worked to my disadvantage. I might
have suggested that I be promoted or inquired
of the Captain if I was to be promoted first. I
am sad. Extremely sad. We are going into
battle when I might be on my way home,
perhaps. At nine o'c1ock we have coffee. After
being sent back for my cartridge belt when
almost to the kitchen. Then it is so dark that
we cannot find our tent for some time. To bed
without a much desired smoke, being afraid to
light a match. Hell breaks loose soon after
Mac has fussed himself to sleep. Doherty
almost as bad. Both are so nervous that I must
order them to sleep. An aeroplane out for
destruction is above us. I do not much care
what happens until I say my prayers, which
gives me fresh courage. Barrages and shelling
in addition to the Boche's work. He drops his
bombs near us it seems. The morning will tell.
Sleep fitfully. At two o'clock a gas alarm.
consternation. I cannot find my mask for the
time it takes me to take two breaths. A lot of
excitement and no gas. Doherty, the most
nervous man I ever met for a man who says
his prayers as I know he does. When the
turmoil is over, we sleep again. I wonder who
it is that is gaining ground in the barrage.