Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 27 May 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 



Mon. May 27, 1918
Weather: Cloudy, Mild
Health: Good
Up at 6:00. Wash. Police up. Breakfast.
Bacon, bread, coffee, butter. Go out to work
early. One party resumes work on OP. 1st Lt.
takes a party out. I am with 2nd Lt. and Sgt.
We look for a suitable field of fire for a
machine gun. We must also find a good place
for outpost and another point from which
observation can be taken. A slowly moving
job. Lt. wants suggestions from us. We are
very ignorant of subject but we all make bold
efforts to conceal it. In some cases, we are
successful. I traverse woods a number of times
during early forenoon to locate position. In the
course of one trip, I find a pile of faggots
among which I see one I would like to have
for a stick. I will ape the fashion of the
English, most of whom carry a stick. I whittle
it and shave it of bark, while we are on our survey. It develops I will need an aid to
walking. Lt. has a passion this morning for
walking over trench system again and taking
bearings. Peculiar. In comparison to 1st Lt. he
gives us not a minutes rest. We walk all
morning. Finish up by going through woods
again to check up a bearing. Come out at spot
which to my mind is far from right, but
apparently it is taken as exact. Machine guns
firing in range makes Lt. fear for safety. We
must go into woods again to CF in which to
advance under cover. Mess. Beef stew, hard
tack, coffee. As I am having my tin filled we
hear a sound as of a rushing in air. A distinct
whistle and rustling among the leaves. A
second later a tremendous bang. The ground
rocks. It seems to have passed directly over
our heads and struck not far from us. I am
frightened. This is Fritz's first whizz—bang. It
suggests itself to me that Englishman whom
we think is a spy has disclosed our position.
He has not made an appearance today, which
adds to my suspicions. Another one comes
over before we finish mess. I lie down in tent
to write no matter what happens. Some of the
boys go to the end of enclosure to see what
shell hit. Nothing to be seen but a cloud of
dust or smoke quite a distance away. A
company of Englishman manoeuvering in
woods behind us. They are firing a trench
mortar which with bombardment of usual
intensity from front and Fritz's little reminder
to us every ten minutes or so makes a fairly
deafening racket. I try to form conjectures of
the damage the shells are making, the loss of
life which they are causing. I shudder. We lie
around until 3:30. Informed that Battalion will
inspect trenches tonight. They will camp out
behind lines. Lt. takes a party to meet them
and escort them to lines of defense allotted to
the different companies. I go out with 2nd Lt.
on a tour of observation. 3 posts established.
We must imagine our men when they come,
are the enemy, and observe and note their
movements. Also anything that takes place in
meantime which would be of military
importance. He tries to trick us but I catch him
at it and record his movements. He is pleased
at our acuteness. By six no enemy in numbers
has appeared. He rounds us up and takes us in
to supper. Post #2 has seen F. Company.
Supper. Cheese, bread, jam, coffee. Time for
another shell dropping party from the enemy.
Soon 5E Company comes in. Our men return.
A concert at farmhouse in pasture. Shelling
begins again with same objective. Reports of
casualties come in. Deaths in Anzac camp and
along ......... road. Apparently they are trying
for RR behind road, and important line of
communication. I wonder how our men are
reconciled to being greeted thus for their first
visit to the trenches. Our scouts report anxiety
in camp. At dusk, an air raid on same
objective. Frequent shelling and machine gun
fire directed in air. Enemy also trying for 2 of
our observation balloons. Barrage and
intermittent shelling from our men in enemy
direction. I go to bed at dark. Say a fervent
prayer for protection of our men. At times it
seems as if our camp is being hit. Lying in tent
explosions from big shells are much louder
than when I was up. They almost jolt me off
ground. I cannot sleep in spite of fact I am
tired. It is cold and frosty too. My shoulders
and back will not stay warm. Every time I
doze off a shell bursts with a sound sufficient
to wake the dead. At about one a fierce battle
is waged in the air. Machine guns shell and
searchlights play. Three bombs are dropped. A
big shell bursts at same time. A wild night. No
sleep for me. Our guard loads and locks his
piece. He is anxious for our safety. I shiver
when I think that it is worse than this at the
front tonight. It seems hardly possible, yet it
must be so. I envy my tentmate who snores
unconcernedly. What would Leah say if she knew.