Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 16 August 1918.
Nationality: Australian

Text: 

Fri. Aug. 16, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Suffering from effects of gas
Up at 8, nauseous, eyes glassy and red,
throat sore and lungs congested, no
appetite. Cough and blow my nose
continuously. Weak in general. Little ambition
to roll my pack and hike with it on my back.
Wash and shave, which helps freshen me a bit.
Go scouting about for a cup of coffee, which
is all I care to eat. Our kitchen has none. They
have received no ration and will have cabbage
and potatoes from native garden in about an
hour. I roll my pack so that I can take with me
to Batt. Hdqrs. an overcoat, slicker, towel,
toilet bag, my sweater. The rest is in my tent
half. Have a hard time to eat my mess. At 11,
everybody ready to start for the farmhouse,
where we will stop for dinner. Fritz is quiet all
morning. He has done very little while out in
this area. Difficult for me to climb the hill to
the farmhouse. My wind is extremely poor. I
am afraid I will decline rapidly from now on,
according to what I have been told of the
effects of gas. Take off my pack in the E Co.'s
kitchen, where I get a slice of bread with
butter and a cup of hot coffee, which is
sufficient for my dinner. I am urged to take
steak and other things, but I have no appetite. I
am told that during the night Fritz put a shell
into the barn, where E Co.'s work detail was
asleep and blinded two or three of our men
and put fourteen of them in the hospital.
Varying reports of the damage done. I go to
the infirmary where I am treated. I am given a
drink of ammonia and water, some ammonia
to inhale. My eyes bathed with a solution of
bicarbonate of soda, which is also applied to a
few burns on my face. See one man terribly
blistered from the mustard gas, all over his
body. In five minutes I feel fresh as a daisy. I
expected to be sent to the hospital. The doctor
wants to know if I am blind. As long as I can
see I am fit for duty. The men wait impatiently
for me. I go back to the kitchen, taking off my
mess kit carrier from my pack and with that
make into a bundle the other things I mean to
carry into the lines with me. A bulky load, not
very heavy. We are off. I know the way better
than the others. Levine, Mac and Doherty put
me in command. That leaves me in a state
where personal fear is entirely forgotten. I
have the lives of others on my hands. No time
for thoughts of self. Not a shell from Fritz all
the way up the hill to the woods. Lead the men
287safely through the woods. There we halt for a
rest. Doherty white with fear. Mac nervous. I
am quite calm. Across the field as quickly as I
can travel, without a mishap or incident. Rest
in a funk hole. Two runners with a message
come down. There is a post two or three holes
further on, where the message is delivered for
relay. I permit the relay to get away first. I
follow with my command. Past the dead horse
and the spilled beans before Fritz spies us and
sends a few shells for us. His range is long.
With the first one, I hug the earth, with the
second we run into the bushes. The men
huddle together. I order them to spread out.
Put my bundle on my back to act as a shock
absorber if fragments fall on me. It is a foot
thick of cloth, excellent for the purpose.
Fragments fall close to us. Since his range is
long, I want to move forward. I collect my
brood and we run down the hill past the dead
men, entirely out of range. Almost fall where
the water overflows. Afraid Fritz will get us at
this point with machine gun fire. Do not stop
until we are safe in our dugout. Only three
men are there. Headquarters have moved
down the street. The three men present are
very sick. The Major is just sent to the
hospital. He is in a bad state. Every member of
the Hdqrs. detachment has gone or is going to
the hospital. All of E Co.'s scouts and many
others. Only ten of us left, including we three,
who just came. All of H Co. but 2 men are in
the hospital. Many casualties from shell fire
during the night and day. Griffiths and Capt.
McMurtry running the Battalion. Griffiths in
bad shape. He hangs on gamely. The bravest
man I ever met. I am wringing wet all over. If
gas were to come now, I would be burnt to a
cinder. Fan myself to dry a bit. There is cold
coffee and bread to eat on which a billion flies
have already feasted. The Major has left
behind a bundle of cigars which we sample.
Lie down in the dirt in an effort get some
sleep. Lt Griffiths comes in to get two fresh
men to go with him on a mission. G Company
platoon and Hdqrs. is ordered with Colonel to
move up on the heights to get out of this hole
where the gas hangs so long. We must
reconnoiter for a position, dangerous work in
the daytime. Doherty tries to get out of it, but
the Lt. orders him to follow. We run through
the streets and up the slope under the shelter of
the brush and woods. In a short while my
lungs are ready to burst. I pant so, must lie
down to rest. Whole body heaving. Up three
terraces where we find a suitable spot for the
retreat. Rest there and return to our quarters
faster than we came up. Not a shot fired at us.
We must wait until dark and orders to move.
Wetter than before. Beg that the candle be put
out to get relief from the flies. Doherty makes
life miserable with his nervous worries about
the light and the curtain. Lie down on a chaise
lounge. A little after dark the liaison platoon
of G comes trooping into our dugout, where it
is pitch dark and no one can see. The seething
mass sit on each other and curse in all
languages. I am far away from my equipment
at the other end of the cellar. Lt. comes, orders
us up. I make a frantic effort to get my things,
tiring myself out completely, even before I
start. Lt. leads a quick march up the hill. Soon
he drops back to let Doherty guide the column
up. I press forward. We halt the men on the
2nd terrace by mistake. Then move up one
more. String out men and tell them to dig in.
Lt. comes and changes plans, taking all of the
men into the little hollow intended for Hdqrs.
We begin to dig in. Revel in a pile of dung.
My imagination plays tricks. Think I am
digging my grave or disturbing the grave of
another. Not five minutes after the task is
begun we are shelled. He must have seen us in
the moonlight overseeing the orchard. He fires
short. Fall prone as each shell comes hissing
towards us. Steel drops a foot away from us
twice. Then the Lt. calls me. Wants me to go
back to the village to Hdqrs. to wait for a
288ration detail. Take another man with me to
bring back two G men for the purpose of
acquainting them with position so they can
form a liaison group. I go back for my coat
and arms. Hesitate a moment before I return to
the Lt. which saves my life probably, for had I
been that much further advanced on my return
to where he was I would have been struck
squarely on the head by a pound piece of steel.
Say a prayer of thanks. Lt. cautions me to
duck when I hear a shell coming. I do not heed
his warning. I run and flop alternately. It is
getting hot. Make the village in safety. Fill up
my canteen at the pump. Man looking for aid
for an engineer, badly wounded. Two
ambulances ready to take casualties out. Argue
with my companion in center of the street,
ordering him to proceed with his mission,
which he will not do. I get into a dugout as
three shells explode behind me, sending a
shower of debris into the door and down the
steps after me. A barrage of at least a thousand
shells follows H Co. and plenty of gas. The
town and the whole hillside is raked by the
fire, shaken up considerably. My mask on and
off. The ration detail comes to report. Later Lt.
Griffiths, who brings down a party of L. Co.,
which has taken up a position near us on the
hill, for water. We go to Batt. Hdqrs. Lt.
arranges about rations. An E Co. detail tells
me Atha and Kinlen have shot themselves
while cleaning their pistols, slight foot
wounds. I am left behind to bring an E and F
man up in morning. Glad to be left, where
there is shelter. I tell of my experiences to a
sergeant, not knowing that Lt. Godfry and
Captain of the 3rd Batt. are asleep there. There
is occasion for them to wake up. A
conversation follows which I will remember
for the rest of my days. Try to help them but
they do not take my advice. I lie down to sleep
on a mattress. Sleep for three hours, soundly.
Sergeant kind enough to give me something to
eat. There is plenty of ration but difficult to
carry it in the lines. Lt. Cook comes in looking
like a lunatic. He was up in the hill with
Hdqrs. They were shelled out and wounded
soon after I left or as soon as the company
took on position. Lt. Case badly wounded with
other men and Lt. Guerst was killed. Most
everybody shell-shocked and he fears for the
safety of Lt. Griffiths and Capt. McMurtry,
who were with him. The men had to move to
another sector unknown to us. I am worried.