Author: Frederick Harold Tubb.

Date: Tuesday 29.06.1915.
Nationality: Australian.

Couldnt sleep properly last night. The flag pavement below gives back the great rattle & noise of vehicles. Breakfasted at the Majestic and am taking out some more of my stuff to the Base where I am again going to report
 
Received the same old story from the Base, "Report at half past nine tomorrow morning I don't think I'll get away before Friday by all accounts.  I met Lt Stewart & Lt Fraser (late RSM) at Mustapha, they are both convalescent and will be going to England shortly Spent the morning with them (and Capt Kirby) of the 8th) at the club. I went out to lunch at the Carlloŭ with Kirby. I drew £4 more from the Paymaster but had to "work the oracle" with the staff clerk to do so  as I am was 4/- over drawn Am getting to know my way about Alexandria now One want's plenty of cash to   do it in the proper style(!) Lt. Fraser late R.S.M told me that the reason why more of our 7th men were not mentioned in honors despatches etc was that the names (24) that were handed in to Brigade Major Cass, were lost by him the day 
he was wounded. Fraser says that the list has been found since and that the awards should appear before long I? Hear that Major Masow has gone to England to recoup. Some of our officers have gone to Florence having from Malta having received invitations from English & others to stay with them. It is splendid of these families & A.I. for officers who have a royal time at no expense? .I went round to the American Kursal & Casino Bellevue in the evening and was interested. I had a look at a game called Pelotta Basque, played in an enclosure with a curved canoe shaped bat & a ball, plenty of betting is indulged in by the spectators but I left that alone, It is a curious sort of a game - Bookmakers as well as the totalisator were in evidence. Came back to my room at 11.30 & have sent a boy for a bottle of beer. It is very difficult to get a drink here after 9.30 now owing to the closing of sale of it at that time.
 
The blessed place here never seems to go to sleep a continuous rattle of Arabic's & pedestrians keeps up. Have just seen the Town piquet patrolling the streets. The niggers here all have "It's a long way to Tipperary" pat & they sing it in tune too? One hears every sort of language spoken in this place. It's a good job that most of them can understand some English There's no doubt that English people are top dog here. The Australians are thought a lot of amongst the peoples here It is noticeable that the Australians are a superior race to anything we've seen yet. - The boy has just arrived with the beer - drinks are very expensive in most places here. 5 piastres each, is the usual price in the best hotels but at the Kursal 11½ is charged 119 for Tennets lager + 18pT for two whiskies and soda's Midnight is striking by the big clock in the Bourse so it's a fair thing for bed? 