Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 15 April 1918.
Location: At Sea in Danger Zone.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Monday April 15, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm, sea calm
Health: cold slightly better
At Sea.
Toward evening in possible danger
zone.
Bakers arrested for selling rolls.
Take advantage of my cold and lie abed until
after Reveille, one eye open and one ear
cocked. I listen to all the calls and all the
bustle but I play fox, Get up in time to wash
and make bed before breakfast. Barley
porridge, bread, butter, coffee and stew which
is not fit to eat. Shave down in hold with water
from my canteen. On a little job for Sgt.
Curley, first bit of fatigue duty I have done
since boarding ship. Carry pail upstairs to
empty it. That arduous duty over, I am free to
go on deck. We are in a different formation.
There are now two boats on starboard side,
cruiser in port not in front as usual. Smoke and
lounge about. Nothing to read. Boat drill at
nine. Everyone present. Dismissed. must go
below to get rifles. Looks like inspection. Go
downstairs and feverishly polish some more. I
am last one up. Afraid I would have dirtiest
gun. Inspection. My gun is one of the best.
New men and signalmen remain for work. I
remain and watch both classes work. Sit on
port anchor, smoking and watching waves.
Flying fish numerous. Much shifting of
positions of ships and a great deal of flag
signalling. Remain at port until time for mess.
Dinner. Lentil soup, potatoes, cabbage, meat
which it is sinful to serve, stewed dried
peaches. On deck to take advantage of
sunshine. Get a bit of old newspaper from
Corp. Dougherty and settle myself to read.
From nearby, cry goes up, "whats that? A
torpedo." I jump, lifebelt ready. See in
distance what appears to be cloud of spray. It
is travelling in direction of one of our fleet. It
changes its course and heads for us. No effort
made to avoid it but great excitement on
bridge and deck, Telescopes and glasses much
in demand. We decide object is a whale
spouting. Another appears a short distance
ahead. This develops into a cloud of smoke
clearly visible, which rises to a considerable
height. Tension relieved. They are smoke
bombs. Presently they are sent off from every
ship. One of then produces a remarkable
smoke screen, which hides entire fleet from
our view. When cloud lifts, cruiser which was
leading is seen coming toward us at right
angles and then to our rear. Great speed. She
remains behind, cruising until evening, when
she takes lead again. At most interesting
moment, we are ordered below to wait call for
drill. Good time. Dismissed. Sleep on hatch
for an hour. Rumours that a submarine was
sighted is going the rounds. Crewmen drilling.
Signalmen working. Pugh, who has missed
formation, given fatigue duty by Lt. Cook.
Supper. Worst yet. Bread and butter and tea.
There was fish, too, but I was not satisfied
with the odor of it. Start a new book. “
Sorrows of Satan". ....... in the dusk. A strange
game is being played on deck forward. A man
is corralled and downed and his bottom is
bitten by boys. Many caught. Down in hold to
read when darkness falls. Hungry. Make trip
to canteen. Nothing sold but onions, which
strange to say are good. Tonight a guard is
posted to watch over boats. Each boat will
have a man in it at all times. I volunteer to do
a shift, wishing to see everything in case of
accident. My offer accepted. Pieces are loaded
and locked and orders are to permit no one to
enter boats except ...... Shoot to kill, if
necessary to avert panic or accident. Write and
read till eleven thirty. Sleep well. These are
interesting days, full of the spirit of adventure.
Not a man among us who would show white feather. Search horizon for signs of convoy.
Watch is doubled on ship's bridge and on
crows nest. Fleet travels without a single light
showing at night. Nothing but black hulks to
be seen against gray sky and water.