Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 23 June 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:


Sun. Jun. 23, 1918
Weather: Warm, Showers
Health: Good
Up at 7:00, instead of 6:30 as scheduled.
Top Sgt. has overslept. He is not very insistent
this morning that absentees be reported for this
reason. No Reveille formation to catch up with
schedule. Best breakfast in France. Rice,
prunes and stewed apples, bread, Karo, coffee.
Police. Our company goes on guard again. I
expect to be called but am not. Newspaper
man comes to put us in good humour. Raining
intermittently. Sgt. looking for a detail. I must
air my blankets at that time. Wash and shave
at the town pump. Get stationary from YMCA
by sending Kronenberg to get it. Lie down on
hillside where my blankets are spread out and
begin writing a letter to Mama. Kronenberg
comes to join me. Now Sgt. Nichols is looking
for a detail. It begins to rain. Two excuses to
go to YMCA to write are better than one.
Gather up my blankets and put them on bunk,
going in back entrance to barrack. Out back
way and avoid Sgt. Get to YMCA. Upstairs,
where are two writing rooms with a half dozen
board tables and benches. A forgotten feeling
of comfort to sit at a table while writing.
Downstairs a man is playing the piano.
Syncopated and classic. He does very well at
both. It must be a great comfort for such a man
to be where he can find a piano when he is at
leisure. Someone joins him singing a song
accompanied by piano. From somewhere
across the street, I hear a phonograph. I was
deeply immersed in my writing. Startled by
resemblance to Sunday at home. Pause to
listen. It is just as when I was at home, lying in
bed, thinking of my afternoon visit to Leah,
my sisters play the piano, while a wheezy
phonograph is grinding out ragtime from
somewhere in the courtyard. In those days I
was seriously annoyed at the intrusion on my
thoughts. Strangely this morning I am not. I value music too much to complain. Go on
writing, telling Mother about it, and thinking
how pleased Leah will be when she hears of
incident. I mean to tell her about it too. I must
coach Kronenberg in spelling. Now a religious
service is being held downstairs. Hymns are
sung. A soloist, A sermon, A prayer.
Impressive in the extreme. Write a letter to
Sam Friedman, before I go to quarters. Mess.
Boiled beef, potatoes, bread, coffee. Excellent.
Clean gun. Begin a letter to Willets. Called out
at 1:15 for company formation to go to rifle
range again. Today entire company will shoot
with exception of riflemen learning Souchard.
Range detail is picked from among men who
shot twice yesterday. Using same targets as
yesterday. All paste and markers. Targets
cannot be distinguished. Lt. takes no interest
in scores. Each man looks at his own target. I
shoot ten shots, making a fine group. Lie
down to take a nap, while waiting for
company to finish work. A heavy hail storm
comes up. It rattles on helmets and covers the
ground with a blanket of white. A stiff wind
bends young pines and birch in the forest like
reeds. It thunders too. Twice a rain shower
interrupts. Expert shots in company put at
rapid firing, Non-coms in particular. Then
scouts are pitted against non-coms. We show
them up. I get off nine shots in the allotted
minute and as nearly as I can judge there are
four bullseyes on my card and a good group of
three just below. This fusillade ends the day's
work. Write again. Supper. Canned roast beef,
potato, bread, rice, coffee. Wonder is
expressed at how good a complaint does.
Finish letter to Willets. Not neglecting Leah, I
write 8 pages to her. Mail distributed to-day.
For first time since mail has been arriving, I
do not receive any. By candlelight lie down in
Rubin's bunk next to mine to write. It is softer
bedded than mine, more roomy. Stay there
until dispossessed by three occupants who
wish to sleep. Continue writing in my bunk
until Sgt. orders all lights out and noise
stopped at 10 o'clock. Lenehan who is being
punished for his recent drunk by being given
nasty detail work, was put to work picking up
orange peels and nut shells in streets of town.
When he goes to bed he tells of his discomfort
while at his task. Frenchmen laugh at him, our
men jibe. He tells how he was given a bag big
enough to hold all the orange peels in France.
Objects that the men who ate the fruit threw
skins where they are hard to get at, in mud
holes, ditches, etc., instead of in middle of
street. He thinks that orange skins are used by
the British for making marmalade. I laugh
more than I have in months. Laughter is
irresistible, listening to Lenehan tell his
troubles in a dry plaintive voice, making
everyone laugh, yet he lies in bed without a
smile disturbing his features. He is paying
dearly for his drunk. But "every dog has his
day" he says. While here everyone is carefree
and comfortable, mirth reigning until late in
the night, not far away men are dying and
being wounded to-night. Observation balloons
were up early in the morning. All day the air
was alive with the drone of aeroplane motors.
The sound of shells bursting high in air came
every minute. At sundown activity on a large
scale was commenced. Barrages were laid
down after that until long after we went to
sleep. Apparently Fritz's welcome to our men.
We wonder what the casualty list will be and
whether our Battalion is engaged in the
struggle to-night. Some of our men expect to
be awakened during the night to go up as
reinforcements. All have our respirators
nearby and remove as little clothing as
possible. Anxiously await reports. Ginsburg
returns from the hospital cured. Tells us of
other men. He has travelled over France, going
through Paris, Rouen, and has had a bully
time. He loves nurses, treatment he received,
and gets a hearty welcome from us. Glad he is
back with us. 



