Author: Frederick Harold Tubb.

Date: Wednesday 09.06.1915.
Nationality: Australian.
  
Inspected rifles & found them in good order except three. Rumour is rife re our future doings We hear that we are off to England or France in three weeks, that is, the horses & transport sections. Frank & I went in to Alexandria paid for my photos, purchased some beautiful silk articles presents for mother & sisters & cigarettes for Father, to be sent home tomorrow. I hope they reach home alright - We visited the Abbassick secondary school hospital & saw Major Blegard & Lt Rodgers they have had a bad time especially Blegard. Major Blegard was pretty bad we
 
had a long talk with him, he was operated on the day before. I trust he recovers! Our position at Gaba Tepe seems Ok. but at Cape Helles things are not so good. We have heard that Achi Baba has fallen but I doubt it by the accounts that have come in Another batch of Australians have arrived Col Crouch's lot they have not behaved too well at Colombo & on the voyage by all reports. We met two English Officers Hampshiris & Lancashires on the train they told us that 200,000 British troops have just arrived they are concentrating  at Alexandria, Cairo Lemnos, Tenedos for a big forward move on the Gallopoli.  By jove we want them, these reinforcements are needed & we feel more secure & confident in consequence We lunched of the Savoy Palace Hotel & dined at the Regina with Lt. Wright Smith late of our Bn now a 2/Lt in the British Army We found out from the base office that Charlie is still 
at Heliopolis with the horses so I gave he Lt Smith who is stationed there also, a letter for Charlie. We visited our Base record office but the O.G. Sergeant could give us nothing fresh. They expect news of the casualties tomorrow Rumour states that 9000 have occurred, I wonder how our L.Horse crowd got on- We saw Major Cass for a few minutes he is getting well fast. Our Brigadier McKay has returned to the front Major Jackson also, Lt Conder is invalided to Australia  He left by the Kyarra this morning.