Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 27 June 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:


Thu. Jun. 27, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
My First Wedding Anniversary
Up at 6:00. Stand on guard for 10 minutes or
so. Corporal calls it off then. It is cloudy.
Perhaps it may rain. Pick a handful of
strawberries. Go to visit the new men. Sgt.
188Hesaber running around loose. We help him
out of his troubles. Breakfast detail has gone
down for mess. I lie down for a nap and a chat
with Rubin. Men are all standing to, in trench.
Stay until ordered out by 1st Sgt. Move back
to woods, taking with us belongings of men
who are on mess detail. Waiting anxiously for
breakfast is too tame for me. I get out on road
to look for cherries. See a farmer mowing hay
in a field under a loaded tree. I approach with
a smile, looking up at the tree inquiringly.
Yes, cherries, but no good, "Sour, acid" and I
can take all I wish. He has no use for them. I
may take as many as I like. They are big and
ripe. He takes out some tobacco to bite off,
sufficient for a chew, telling me it is American
tobacco. I play politics, giving him a plug I
have been carrying around with me. He helps
me half fill my hat with cherries. Breakfast.
Apples, stewed, beans, doughnuts, bread,
coffee. Full to excess. I want more cherries.
Del Duca knows where to get some. He orders
me back with mess kits, while he gets cherries
big as plums. He promises to return with a
capful. Move into back woods, Rubin helping
me carry excess load. Lie down for a nap till
Corporal comes back with cherries. Really
good. He also brings back a fifty franc note,
which he divides among the men, five francs
each if they wish. I go to P..... to spend some
of it, to wash and shave. Write out an order
that Corporal authorizes me to purchase
supplies for squad, go with Rubin to make
purchases of crackers, cigarettes, jam, etc.
Meet a Frenchman who has been in New
York. He speaks almost perfect English.
Modestly admits he knows a little. Gas shell
holes all around our camp. Craters show
evidences of potency of gas, earth being
blackened and hardened in spots. Many of
them, especially near batteries. Back after I
make my toilet at the town pump. In ten
minutes crackers are gone. It is time to go up
for dinner. I do not care to go. Ask Rubin to
bring me back a bit, if it is good. Lie down to
read. What a Godsend is today, my wedding
anniversary, and nothing to do but to bask in
the sun, which has come out, and ponder upon
my happiness in Leah. No trenches in sight. I
am free from the guilt of having slain or even
attempted to. I will write a letter to Leah to
celebrate this day. If I would only get mail as a
present it would be ideal. Maloy and Himpler
come back while I read. They have met an
orderly coming to us with a message. We are
to pack up and move to the line with Lt. G. I
am dazed. Ask a lot of questions to make sure
that I am in my senses and have heard. Up my
boy! Do not show these men you do not want
to go. I pack up hurriedly for we are late. Cool
as a cucumber, I will take my chances. Off for
Batt. Hdqrs. Stop to have dinner. Steak,
potato, bread, coffee. Rubin is troubled and
pale. He knows. Eat quickly and little. We are
off across field. They have sent orderly to look
for us. It is all uphill. I begin to perspire.
Never was I so hot. Anxious to get to Hdqrs.
Men will not stop long enough to give
themselves benefit of rest. In the woods are
twenty or more men resting. We join them.
Meet Sgt. Nichols, who tells us there is only a
few hundred yards to go. Hdqrs. a beautiful
barrack colony in woods. Men who built it
have pavilions and enclosures. Lt. G. and
other Battalion Lieuts. are there, but we will
not go forward tonight. Orders have been
rescinded. 4 men will go to-morrow at 8 AM.
Gillece and I will wait till company goes up
line. In meantime to return to posts. My
prayers are answered. I am not reluctant about
going back after I cool off. It is made in half
time of trip up. Back in quarters in woods.
Throw off pack in assumed disgust. Take off
shoes. Prepare to write to Leah. Send Rubin
for supper of beef stew, bread, butter and
coffee, while I write, and after eating continue.
As I lie I tell corporal of Lt. C.'s dissatisfaction
with sector assigned to us when we go to line,
189that when C. and Iowans suffered many
casualties, boys annoyed at Lt. Any place as
good as another he holds. I defend the Lt.,
which angers the Corporal. He takes revolver,
and points at me. I know he jests, so I do not
move. Bang! I hear no bullet whizzing. He has
shot, which I did not expect. Had I, I would
have moved and been dead. I laugh at my
narrow escape and go on writing. Lenehan is
waiting, talking to Gillece. Maguire fooling
with gun, which is loaded and supposedly
locked. It is not. Bang! A cloud of earth
thrown into the air. Lenehan jumps out
shouting he is shot in back. It is only flying
dirt that has hit him. It takes minutes to
convince him he is alive. He insists he is hit.
Pale as ashes. This army will kill itself yet. We
move to pines. Hell lets loose. We expect a
wild night. Flares and signals up. Continue for
a half hour. Six of us left. We will all stay in
trenches until 10:30, then each team will be on
guard five and a half hours. A steady stream of
supplies and gun carriages going down road
back from lines. Del Duca holds a reception.
War has ceased. It is quiet, but for activity on
road. Stories of narrow escapes from death in
civilian life are told, a subject suggested by
accidents and casualties occurring in our
compound. I have a feeling of distress from an
overloaded stomach. To bed at 10:30, but got
no sleep. I lie awake belching and squirming
from cramps. I hear only wagons on road.