Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 7 July 1918.

Nationality: Australian

Text:

Sun. Jul. 7, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Poor
Find my first cootie in my shirt.
Eat my sandwich and when the next patrol is
out, I get into one of their bunks to finish a
night's rest very much broken up. At 3:00, I
hear the dull boom of a distant barrage to the
right. Not quite sure of it, seems more like I
am dreaming. At four o'clock I am awake
ready to go back to quarters. No message of
any kind to take back to Lt. Not tired. Stomach
easy. Back without incident. Smell of mustard
again. Lt. awake when we enter, helping Sgt.
make out report. It appears that he has been up
all night. Still he is in his usual good humour.
Report verbally about what has happened.
Asks about barrage sent over at 3. Tell him it
was at our left, in error. Correct myself as best
I can. Gillece is sent to Batt. Hdqrs., while I
lie down to sleep until breakfast. Awake at 8.
Sgt. shows me a note written by Lt. ordering
me to report to work squad. He tells Act. Capt.
of F Co., in charge of detail, it is his honest
opinion I am being punished wrongfully for
some one's mistake and requests him to be
lenient with me. Nevertheless, I am sore at
heart at the thought of having to undergo
punishment, and that, to protect others. I must
take it without complaint and have a black
mark against my record. I am not willing to go
even under the easy conditions of Lt.'s note
and say so, earnestly. Sgt. of course, has his
hands tied. He sympathizes with me, as do all
the men, and many a threat of revenge is
uttered against the men who wronged me. I go
for breakfast. Eat little and in silence, feeling
like a whipped youngster. Argue that I will
take a court-martial in preference, but for Lt.'s
sake I do not press on that tack. Ask if it
would be expedient to report sick, which for
my own sake, I really should do, thereby
getting out of punishment by a technicality.
Now that I want to be sick, I feel fairly well
and I cannot feel honest if I do report sick. I
want to see Lt. once more before I go. I can
see him at the window, shaving. I wait until he
has finished, but when I get upstairs he has
mysteriously disappeared. I become moody.
Try Sgt.'s patience while I attend to toilet with
a lot of needless fuss. Begin to roll my pack in
full view of them all. Not until I am almost
finished does Sgt. tell me it is not necessary. I
am going but to Hdqrs. of F, to report to either
Lt. or Sgt. Much cheered at that and am up
and off in a hurry. We get to ........., which is
the route Sgt. wishes to take to destination, but
I dissuade him and get him to go by a good
road with me. I am under the impression that
we are bound for road at right of 12. When
there, Sgt. finds ground unfamiliar. He wants
to go to the left. It is a puzzle how to get there
from where we are at present. We must go
uphill and downhill by roads and steps cut into
side of hill, until we get to the foot, in the
gully where our imaginary German stronghold
is. We are at the extreme left of the path
described by Capt. Mills. There are shell holes
galore and I can easily see that Capt. Hills
must he right in his surmise. We are to the best
of my knowledge in No Man's Land, a plain
target for snipers. If Sgt. is not afraid, I will
not be, but I caution him not to go too far. I
finally convince him we should go uphill
208again and to our right. He accedes and in a few
minutes we find our post, but no Sgt. or Lt.
They are at French Hdqrs. We make the
tortuous journey through the boyau, sweating
and bumping my head as usual, only to find
that they are not there either. In ........ at F
kitchen perhaps. Sgt. has been there but not
now, so he is sent for and brought to us. What
a long time it has taken to bring a culprit to his
punishment. Now that I am here, there is not
work to do. Cheered again by the thought that
Major's order is being obeyed, as it should be,
merely having me report, to be dismissed, and
remain at the service of Lt. Griffiths. Sgt.
walks up to our quarters. Pottery is mentioned
when we arrive at door, where 3rd battalion
scouts are, while on a visit to the lines. They
would like to go to the pottery with me to get a
few souvenirs for themselves. I go with them
to show them where to find what they want.
Go there and bring back with us handfuls of
same designs that I got yesterday. It is agreed
that I have my dinner and report back to Sgt.
at 1:30. I may mess and sleep where I have
been during the week. Steak, potato, bread,
coffee. Stomach rebels. Read newspaper,
President's Fourth of July speech. Go to report
for duty. Dismissed! Glory Hallelujah! For
once the Army does things sensibly. I need not
report to-morrow unless called for. Back to
resort the glad tidings and tell Sgt. of course I
want to do guard duty. Then I will wash my
underwear and take a bath in the stream. The
sun is hot and there will be lots of time for my
wash to dry, Aeroplanes overhead make me
nervous. Germans up far from me are being
fired at. He may see me before I can take
cover. One eye on him, and hurry bath. On my
undershirt I find a cootie. Black helps me look
for more. That is all I find. Hang clothes to
dry. Upstairs to write a letter to Leah about
yesterday’s remissness and to-day's cootie.
Steal the necessary paper. Finish Lottie's
letter. Supper. I am cheerful. Feel like a
member of our select circle should feel,
cheerful, a good appetite too. Meat balls,
bread, coffee, potatoes, sauce. Upstairs to
write again. A voice from below calls my
name. Sgt. Hammond. He wants me at 7:30
tomorrow AM. In the dumps again, mentally
as well as physically. I get cramps. I had
intended to remain awake until 12 when I go
on gas guard, but instead I go to bed with
miserable outlook upon things, sorry that I did
not report sick. Worry until I sleep. Boys had
to seek shelter in dugout twice during last
night. At town fountain evidences of gas shells
to be seen. In that part of town I can see a
dozen new holes. Herman and Kandel, who
were near where one strikes, are badly
shocked. During day, much air activity.
Hundreds of shells sent into the air. Heavy
nose of one, a missile of death, if struck, falls
outside our quarters. Shelling from our guns
kept up all day at intervals. On the whole
things are tranquil. F Co. and Frenchmen are
coming back from their raid as I am on my
way to quarters in the early morning. They
have penetrated 700 yds. into German lines
and found no one. One man says, Germans go
home to their wives at night. One man
accidentally shot in the arm by his own men.