Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 25 June 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 


Tue. Jun. 25, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
Three blasts of the whistle. It cannot be 6
o'clock so soon. I had only just gone to sleep.
Everybody up. I rub my eyes. I am not
dreaming. Do I hear the cry “Gas”? I was sure
I heard it coming from the next barracks. It
was expected I know, so just to make sure, I
reach for my mask. No need to put it on, in six
seconds. We are indoors. I wait to make sure,
because it is inconvenient to wear mask. 1st
Sgt. exclaims at this point. Everybody up, roll
packs, ready to move in a few minutes. Going
up the line. We are needed. Message to Batt.
Hdqrs. Too bad that my hopes are shattered. If
I must be in a trench on Thursday in obedience
to orders, I must. No help for it. I will kiss
Leah's picture, say a prayer for her safety and
that I may come back to her. I feel easy and
quite calm now. I find myself pitying Rubin,
who always wants to know what time it is in
New York. It is only 1:30 now. Sure enough,
"It's about 7:30 in New York". That is all. We
dress. I carefully adjust my new leggings as
though I am going on a vacation trip or an
184outing. Make up my pack, adjusting
everything neatly. Lt. C. comes in to hurry us.
Slickers will be worn. He sees everybody
rolling pack. Asks why. "We were all told to".
"No, No." Only 1st and 4th platoons and Del
Duca's squad, of the second, Bezer's squad of
the 4th. A relief for those men who do not go,
that is given vent to in a vast audible sigh.
They help us to get ready. Outside it is dark, a
bright moon and a starry sky. My first care is
water. I tell all men in squad to fill bottles. We
must wait to draw ammunition. Order is to fall
out. No lights to be shown. Fifty cigarettes are
lit. Rubin examines his gas mask, a good idea.
I do likewise, while I listen to Reddie next to
me asking Sgt. where we are going and how
long we would stay, in a voice subdued by
fear. I want to go away from them. I would
rather listen to shells bursting. Auto-rifle
ammunition is drawn, pistol and rifle
ammunition comes up next and we are off, just
as day is dawning. March up the road in
squads, twenty yards apart, slowly, so as not to
gain on leaders, through the virgin forest,
silent, but for the waking birds. It is hot work,
going up hill always. Co. single file on right of
the road. I lead. Order passed back to halt and
rest. We close up and sit down. We must get
up again. Close up platoon. Rest. Up a 45
degree hill, a terrible strain on the legs. Sweat
pours from under my tin hat in little rivulets. I
pant from the effort of that little climb as
though I had run miles. Rest for a few
minutes. Lt. puts SOS and a few more good
riflemen at the head of the column. We go on
till edge of woods. Look down into the valley
where there is a low hanging mist, which we
think may be gas. One can never tell. We
sniff! Must wait again for some reason, which
angers Capt. Not so us. Smoke and picture our
fates, in fact, we can hear over the hills the
"Put, put, put" of a machine gun, else all is
quiet. Push forward again, cautiously, for we
are in an open field. Fritz is up. We cannot
hide. A little village. There is a barn being
used as an ammunition dump. Two oxen are
on guard. They eye us suspiciously while we
sit on shells and powder boxes. Forward!
Shells, shells on all sides in camouflaged
dugouts, pyramids on roads. And a little
hillock, which as we come closer proves to be
wire and painted canvas, loose leaves and
straw. Under it a gun. Into the trench go the
leaders. Stay there while we push on, some
left behind in every bay. 308th to end of
sector. Captain goes on to establish
communications with unit on our left. Order is
to keep a man on guard, not specific what he is
to look for. Other 9 men to get under cover, in
a clump of scrub pine and hemlock in the
hollow. We are wet and hungry. A strawberry
patch just outside our door. Forget fatigue and
hunger and work for pleasure of picking
berries. The dew on ground is like ice. My
fingers grow numb but I do not stop until my
cup is half full. Lie down to rest until my turn
comes to stand guard. No one knows where to
get breakfast, which worries us. Runner comes
up at 9 to tell us breakfast is ready, also that
we must go back 200 yards into woods and
keep under cover. Most interest in breakfast.
In a clump of trees, 200 yds. away, it is being
served. Cold because it is brought to us from a
distance of almost 3 miles. Stewed figs, rice,
biscuit, coffee. Go back and carry out orders
to move. Go a little way off road into the
forest, and all lie down for a nap. My helmet is
my pillow. Fritz sends over a shell. It lands not
far from us. Wakes us, causing a little worry.
Wait for a few more. Decide they do not
endanger us. Lie down to nap again till noon
mess. Do not sleep soundly of course, and we
hear shells in the air and sounds of our own
artillery at our right. No mess until 3 o'clock.
Steak, onions, potato, biscuit, coffee, cold.
Nothing to do but loaf and sleep if we can.
Batteries near at hand open fire. Two are not
more than 100 feet from our little camp. They
185startle us. Concussion rocks the ground. The
noise is not a boom but more like the clanging
of an iron door, many times magnified. For a
half hour, they pound away, Fritz returning
our compliments. Quiet. Visit Frenchmen
working on big gun. They prepare to move it. I
carry on a conversation with them, which is
more to my credit than any hitherto, thanks to
yesterday's study. I remain behind, while men
go for supper. They bring back bacon, potato,
coffee, biscuit, cold, greasy. I try to start a fire
to warm coffee a bit, succeeding in warming it
just a little. Men prepare beds and pitch tents. I
wait, reluctant to undo my pack. Stroll about
woods, where I see OPC gun emplacements,
dumps, dugouts, trench systems. French
infantrymen's camp. When I come back, a
voices calling for corporal. I suspect an order
to move. I am right. All men's labor gathering
twigs and straw gone for naught. We must go
back to position occupied in the morning,
taking up post held on arrival. Our blankets
are taken into pines. We stand guard with
respirators at alert, tin hats on, guns loaded
and locked. Wait an hour not knowing what to
do, all watching. 1st Sgt. comes up with
instructions. One man to watch, others to lie or
sit in trench. Can smoke if we wish but must
not show lights. It is awfully cold sitting on
parapet or in trench. The moon pops up over
distant hill and before I can call Rubin's
attention to the brightness and beauty, it is half
over the top. It is a full moon, shedding a light
as bright as day. Flares go up. Signals for our
artillery. Flashes returned from under their
camouflaged hillocks. Soon they will begin
their work. Reagan comes to tell us the signal
for gas is 3 shots from a rifle. If the men to our
left or the right send it, we must lose no time
to get our masks on. We must be on the alert
for shells dropping in our zone. Blankets are
brought up from below. We lie down, two
men abreast across width of trench, after an
hour spent in smoking, jesting, chatting and
complaining of the cold. Rubin remains on
guard. Shut my eyes, which is a signal for
batteries all around us to open fire. First one
fires as many shells as possible, then taken up
by the next and so on. A flash, a crash, a puff
of smoke, a sound of some irresistible unseen
force hurtling though the air with a rush, a
whistle and a moan, as it goes to its
destination, which is too far from us to hear
sound of explosion. We humans, become
accustomed to all things. Being tired, growing
warmer from close contact with Gillece, my
sleeping partner, I fall asleep. I hear nothing
more. "Gas", frenzied shout, which I do not
stop to question or think, nor does anyone
else. I grope in the dark for my mask, which I
have kept on. Hold my breath till it is
uncomfortable, before it is adjusted. Rubin
fires signal, second shot simultaneous with the
bang of our big guns. I hear the hiss of
escaping gas, and of bursting shells, and peer
through goggles into the haze, all in an instant.
In a minute, the hiss and thud and haze are
gone. I look into the clear moon, quiet reigns.
We look at each other, gather courage to talk
cautiously and then Rubin's excited voice is
heard asking pardon. He made a mistake it
appears. There is no gas. But, he is sure he
heard shots, which made him aware that his
responsibility for men's lives rested upon his
shoulders, and his imagination did the rest. I
listen to his apologies, nervously uttered, until
I would like to tell him to shut up, were he not
such a keen young fellow. Look at my watch.
It is just 1:30. My time to go on guard. I
suggest it was only a little joke of his to wake
me up that way. He is too excited to see the
humour and makes further apologies. I take
over post. A runner is sent to find out cause of
signal being fired below. He returns, saying
that it came from headquarters to them, and
the sound of a distant barrage, only thing to
disturb silence of night, while I am on post.
An aeroplane is up. Do not know his mission.
186At 2:30, I wake Lukas and take his blanket
and place in the trench. Rubin took mine next
to Gillece, where he fell asleep instantly. Sleep
like a brick on the damp cold earth of trench.