Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 15 July 1918.

Nationality: Australian

Text:


Tue. Jul. 16, 1918
Weather: Fair, Hot
Health: Good
Chiefly notable for "Eats"
Throndsen calls me at 6. I feel much better. I
have had a good night‘s sleep. I get up quickly
and dress, reporting for duty before I wash. He
suggests I have breakfast first. I look about
me. I am pleased with what I see. Pancakes,
three of them, syrup, strawberry jam and
bread, and real coffee, two cups, with real
milk and lots of sugar. As to the manner born,
I go through with it, complaining, when
H......., the cook, offers me potatoes also, that I
am sick and therefore must not eat too much.
Ready now for a pipe and then I wash myself
at the pump in the square. Cold, invigorating,
running water. After which I get to work
washing dishes, sweeping the floor, etc. When
I am finished, Throndsen has a job for me.
223Upstairs is a bathtub. It is full of garbage and
putrid water. He wants me to clean it out so
that the Captain may take a bath when he
awakes at 11:30. I feel like kicking, but I
decide to wait and see if the details go on any
work. It is a nasty stinking job. I am not
anxious to work too fast. Not looking for any
speed records on the job, so I get my papers
and pen to write a little more to Leah, keeping
my ears open for footsteps on the stairs. I am a
good imitation of a servant. Throndsen catches
me loafing. I tell him a fish story. I go
downstairs and get hell from the cook for
working upstairs. He needs me, so I finish the
job quickly, coming downstairs to do his
errands. Next I am asked to fill the bathtub
with water. I refuse to do that. It is too hot for
such work and besides I am not feeling equal
to the task of lugging 20 or more dixies of
water upstairs. We argue about my disability
in the matter, but whether or not I must obey, I
am not going to fill a bathtub with water,
when I can plead sickness as the excuse. It is
finally agreed that I take up 4 dixies full which
I consider reasonable. That done, I have other
work to do in the kitchen. There is little
chance to loaf. I want to clean up as well as I
can. Officers come in, the Captain gets out of
bed and bathes with the aid of Throndsen. It is
more like a mansion here than a soldier's home
by the lines. The Captain calling Throndsen,
Throndsen for a half hour. He has his dinner
served at once. They do not stay long at it. The
Captain is a busy, hard worker, and he goes at
once to his hdqrs. dugout. Then we have our
dinner. Oh boy! Talk about eats. There is
German pot roast, and spaghetti, potato salad,
brown gravy, pie, apple pie, doughnuts and
strawberry jam, bread and jam, and three cups
of cafe au lait, with beaucoup sugar. Cook
wants wood. I want to sit and ponder over the
taucross on door for a few minutes. I say
nothing but go out into the garden to take from
the line some handkerchiefs which I had
washed in the early forenoon. Cook is in a
hurry, needlessly, and wants to know if I am
an ornament to the kitchen, or do I intend to
work. I do not reply. Go about my business
and on my way out meet Mess Sergeant and
cook conferring. I am called into the
conference and asked why I refused to get
wood. I tell them I did not refuse so far as I
know, but if any "grease ball" talks to me like
that again, things will liven up and as far as
working is concerned, I refuse to do a tap,
which may be told to the Captain, if any one
does tell him. I am humored and an attempt is
made to calm me. I get wood, refusing to chop
same. Prisoners are doing that work. They
complain too, but complaining won't do them
any good. For the rest of the afternoon the
cook makes overtures. I have a bit of beer
from him and he offers me a lot of other little
snacks. I accept what I fancy. Bear him no ill
will. I go out for water. Hear a series of rapid
...... explosions. Planes are up and are being
shelled. I cannot distinguish direction or
nature of sound, but before my pail is filled,
there are two very loud explosions, which
shake every building in the place, and sends
up a puff of white smoke, or rather a cloud of
it. I seek the shelter of a wall until the danger
of falling pieces is over. In headquarters
everybody is ordered out. There is a meeting
of officers, which adjourns to the cellar. I find
my gas mask was left behind. I get it and join
those in the cellar. We stay until someone
mentions that it is an ammunition dump which
has exploded, a fact I thought they were aware
of. They thought it is shelling. We, who saw
the affair from the street, are of the opinion
that Jerry hit it with a bomb. He was over that
spot a moment before. The afternoon passes
quickly. Everything is clean and tidy by 3:30,
and while cook prepares a good dinner, I write
a bit more of my story to Leah. There is no
further complaint about me looking and acting
like an ornament. At 6:00, supper is served.
224when his lordship, the Captain has finished,
we have steak. I take some cold roast left from
the dinner, baked beans, tomato sauce,
potatoes, bread and jam, and tea, real tea, not
quite as good as Leah’s, but the nearest to it I
have has since leaving home. 3 cups.
Everybody on good terms with each other
now. I wash the dishes and the cook dries
them and what with the aid of Throndsen, we
quickly have the kitchen in ship shape. At 8, I
am off for the day. I wash and soap up
thoroughly, hair too, and let the stream from
the constantly flowing pump play on my head.
A most refreshing bath. Fill my canteen for
use at night, if necessary, and retire to my
parlor to write. Take off my shoes and
stockings and open the windows wide,
prepared to spend a comfortable evening at
home. The flies and mosquitos annoying
considerably, while it is light, but after I shut
the blinds and light the candle, they disappear.
I write on my story for an hour and then other
work until 11:30. Candle out, windows wide
open, a beautiful cool breeze, making it ideal
for sleeping. No one but myself is the room.
The two corporals have gone to headquarters
dugout, where I imagine they will stay for the
night. I fall asleep promptly. At 12:30 they
come in, make enough noise to wake me. It
takes a half hour for me to go off again, but
once asleep, I do not open my eyes until the
morning. No news from Stewart. Evidently he
is mending. There is little activity during the
day. Some artillery firing from both sides
only. The ........ road is washed up a bit in the
morning.