Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 5 August 1918.
Nationality: Australian

Text: 

Mon. Aug. 5, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
Up at 7:00. The bugle wakes me. It blows
reveille. Something I have not heard for
months. The companies have formation in the
261streets. I wake the other men, dress and go
downstairs to look for the kitchen. It is a long
walk from where we are, uphill. There is
stewed apples, Karo, bread, coffee made from
chlorinated water. Water is scarce in this town,
because it is on the crest of the hill. In the
center of the town is a well which supplies six
troughs, some for washing, some for the
animals to drink from. The town has two
streets, one long one and one short one at right
angles to it in the center of town, like a T. It is
filthy dirty, animals of all kinds run about the
streets, quite a well populated place. Old men
and women are plentiful. Two stores, which
supply all needs, a few drinking places, a large
church and a school, which was formerly a
poor house. At breakfast Gillece tells me there
is an empty bunk in his billet, so I decide to
change my quarters. Gather my things together
in a shelter half and take them across the
street. Then wash at the troughs where
hundreds of men have already washed. They
are using the animal troughs, too, which
makes the water unfit to drink. To my billet.
Go behind the house to see what is there.
Orchards full of plums and patches of garden
truck, many potatoes, peas and beans. look for
plums which can be eaten. Blue sugar plums
are not ripe, but I find yellow Mirabelle plums
which are small but good. There are many
varieties on hundreds of trees. Also apples,
pears, nuts. Meet Maloy out looking for
plums, too. He tells me that Conway has found
some red ones, ripe and sweet. I follow him,
chewing those I have till I find Conway. His
tree has wonderfully sweet, red and gold
plums. There are others like it nearby. We eat
so many of them that I am afraid I will get
sick. My belly is so full that it is doubtful if I
can eat dimer. I leave the boys and trying to
get back to my billets, I lose my way. I had no
idea I had wandered so far away from the
village. Look across the valley and the
cultivated slope of the mountain, a which is
surely a "belle view". Meet a little, aged,
bowed woman, who is looking for some kind
of herb among the potatoes. I speak to her.
Ask her questions about the town and
surrounding country. She tells me the
mountain is an extinct volcano, which has
erupted in her youth. She calls the picture
before us a belle view. All around on the slope
are the simple graves of men who have died
for France. She tells me about the German
invasion. Talks with difficulty, being bothered
with asthma. I am kneeling, while I listen and
talk, looking up into her face which is almost
level with mine, she is so small. I can see the
church spires of many towns in the distance. I
ask the old lady if one can look into Germany
from the summit of the mountain, but she does
not understand. I believe it is possible to see
Germany. Bid Grandmother good-bye and go
to my billet, get hay for my bunk and arrange
it for to-night. We do not march again until
further orders are issued, so it is expedient to
make myself comfortable. My drawers are dry
at last, which gives me much comfort. I plan
to write a letter to Leah to-day. It is a long
time since I have written to Mama too. First I
will clean my gun. It is very rusty in all parts
from the rain of Saturday night. All the men
are cleaning theirs, which gives the Sergeant
an idea that he will hold an inspection at 4
o'clock. The Lieut. has ordered a formation at
?? o'clock for some unknown purpose. The
division commander has issued an order that
men wear belt, rifles, and full equipment in the
streets when men are away from billets. No
one can understand why, we are so far away
from the lines. I am seen without my belt by a
lieutenant and am asked why I have none. I
give him a satisfactory excuse. Going to
dinner, I carry my belt like the rest of the men.
We have steak and potatoes, bread, tomato
sauce, coffee. Feed the chickens with the
leavings. They gobble up everything that
drops. It is unnecessary to police. After dinner,
262write for half an hour, and then fall in for
formation. We go back of the house into the
orchard. The Lieutenant comes with Sgt.
Frachi, who gives us a lesson in signaling to
aeroplanes with panels. There are only six to
learn. The signal kit consists of l triangular
and 2 rectangular pieces of white muslin. The
Lt. explains how aeroplanes send signals to
men below and the Sgt. shows how to answer.
Then the Lt. begins to talk about guns, that
they should be thoroughly cleaned to be ready
for use probably in the next sector we take
over. He thinks it will be further north, where
there is open fighting more than trench work.
This indicates that in his opinion we will go to
Chateau Thierry. Tells us how to shoot and
sight the new Springfield rifles, which some of
the snipers have. Most of us are bored and
want to be dismissed, but some of the lads
who have nothing else to do, ask a lot of
questions, which prolongs the session. When
finally we are dismissed, I go with Rubin, who
has been in the infirmary below our billet and
has wandered out in back to pick plums. He is
too sick to eat any, but I lead him about with
me for an hour while I pick plums, eat and talk
to him. I learn some things from him about the
engagement we were in on the night of the 3rd
and 4th of July. His action and that of the
Captains. Back at 4 in my billet, where I write
until supper time, which we are informed is at
6. When we get to the kitchen, there is nobody
on line and it looks to me as if the company
has already messed. I ask some men whom I
meet. There is nothing left for us but Sgt.
Kessler is a good fellow. He has some bacon
fried for us, which with some bread and coffee
makes my supper. He promises better for
breakfast to-morrow, and will give us tobacco
in the morning too. The scouts are laughed at
for being late. The men tell us that we will be
late going over the top. After supper the men
borrow as much as they can get together to
buy beer with. They all go out to get drunk if
the money goes far enough, leaving me alone
with Streetor and Simpson. I lie on my belly in
someone else's bunk and write. Interrupted
occasionally to answer a question, which the
boys ask. We get to talking about letters and
writing, what the censor will pass and what he
will not. I tell them of some of the things I
have written home. It is growing too dark to
see, so I go to my own bunk in the bedroom,
light a candle and continue writing. Streetor,
Mac and Swanson come in to go to bed. We
get to talking of many things. First job is what
finishes the night's entertainment, which
started with a discussion of the war. They go
to sleep and I write until my candle goes out.
Make my bed and go to bed at 11. Sleep well
in a fairly soft bed. Shortly after I go to bed, I
hear a noise of some kind downstairs, which
makes me think of war. Which is all that has
happened to suggest there is such a thing. No
shells, rifles, or bombs heard, nor are there any
aeroplanes up. Strange as it may seem, since
there is no money among us, the boys get
drunk. They pledge their next month's pay for
drink. Come in about 10 o'clock and say things
that are nasty to listen to, but for which they
are not responsible. I hate the army when it is
resting. The same old story of idleness
breeding mischief. No place is it so true as in
the army. The Captain has been supplying
funds for some of the men, in small sums. The
best thing that has ever happened is that the
men will not be paid until after we have
finished our movement. I need the money but
will gladly do without it so that the boys will
not kill themselves on the hike, by drink. The
infirmary is busy at sick call. All farm
machinery in the country about here is
American made. McCormick patents.
