Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 11 July 1918.

Nationality: Australian

Text:

Thu. Jul. 11, 1918
Weather: Fair, warm
Health: Fair
Up at 7:00. I would have slept for hours were
it not for the other boys, anxious to get their
breakfast. They awake me. Dress hurriedly.
Breakfast not to my liking. Greasy bacon
again. I have had so much of that stuff. Too
much. That is why my stomach is out of order.
Make a few pieces of toast for myself and with
a cup of coffee, I have a satisfactory breakfast.
Look for pills which I have put in a small
envelope in wash stand. It has disappeared.
Strikes me as funny that any person should
have made away with pills. Wash and shave. I
have a plea to make before Capt. F., so I want
to look as neat as possible when I go. I take
with me my ammunition belt and at my side is
empty holster. No one will look close enough
to notice the deception, and to the passerby it
will look as if I am armed. On the way I meet
a member of the prison squad who says he has
been reassigned to his company. An
observation balloon is up, so I cannot go to
Company Hdqrs. by the direct route. Must
make a detour. Capt. or top Sgt. not about to
speak to me or listen to my troubles. They are
escorting the Colonel through the lines. Men
assure me they will be back in an hour or so. I
know it takes longer than that to make an
observation tour with the Colonel and I intend
to go back to quarters shortly to write. Sit on a
mattress outside the dugout, reading part of
letter to Leah, which I wrote yesterday. An
even dozen aeroplanes make their appearance,
high up in the clouds, coming from the south,
where there are so many it is hard to tell by the
sound of their motors, who they are, but
judging from the white smoke of the shells,
which, an instant after, burst all around them,
they were German planes. In five minutes that
entire patch of sky was dotted with puffs of
white smoke, a hundred of them at least, and
while I read, I distinctly hear the whizz of two
shell nose caps, which come from up above
and land not very far away from me. After I
finish reading, I stay a little while to swear at
myself for having lost my cap, which I am
sure I took with me. Look around for it and
inquire. Then it dawns upon me that when I
took my belt off in my room, it must have
fallen out. Return without leaving any word
behind, I wonder if some new punishment will
be visited on me and a second later forget
about it. Bid the Frenchman good morning and
make my way back to quarters, very leisurely.
It must be seen that I am sick. A squadrille of
French planes up over us in pursuit of the
Boche. Too far behind. They have long ago
gone out of sight and hearing. It proves a very
active morning. Our friends, the Frenchmen,
have their artillery working in good form
today and are letting Fritz know about it. The
75s are kept working all day. No stops for
lunch or anything like that. They have work to
do demolishing some of Fritz‘ recent works
within his lines, which our observers have
spotted. His observation post and a few
machine gun emplacements are targets we
play upon, I believe. Later in the day success
is reported. Back in quarters, lie on my
stomach on bunk, writing until noon time. I
find another few sheets of paper, with which I
must be satisfied, though of smaller size, and I
continue writing letter to Leah. Besides the
story of the Englishman, I tell her about
Ruben, when he awakened us by "mistake". It
takes 22 pages to talk to her. Read and seal in
an envelope, then comes the question of how
and where to mail it. Read for a time. Take a
nap for a half hour or so. Think it is a good
time to write a letter to Morris Berger. I make
a beginning on it at any rate, keeping me
occupied until supper time. I am not hungry,
but it is best to eat something. Make a few
215slices of toast and have my usual cup of
coffee. A few stolen figs. Bit of steak, which I
have had with my dinner, is still in my
stomach and causing me considerable distress.
By that I am able to tell what part of my diet is
harmful. Must be fried foods, for yesterday I
had a piece of roast meat, without any bad
after effects. I will avoid anything with grease
in its composition. I finish Morris's letter. I am
more or less aware that it is a bilious
composition. I do not seal it therefore. To keep
occupied, read a newspaper and try a book.
My eyes hurt. I lie down but not to sleep.
Quickly I am rested and interested in pinochle
game, which has been going on all afternoon.
A slow game, for small stakes, being played
by men, not because of the money which is
won or lost, but for the interest to be found in
it. I tire of watching them. So I begin writing a
letter to Annette which is interrupted by the
lights going out. The card game has been
finished at 10. My letter not important enough
to warrant burning candle which will keep the
men awake. They are going out to work on
sunburst patrol tonight. Some of them are, and
an hour's sleep will come in handy. Originally
early in the day a patrol of large proportions
was planned for. It would have taken nearly
every man in the detachment to satisfy the Lt.
Batt. Hdqrs. interferes and changes plans.
Dizzy army, the boys say. Only this crowd
does that! They do not know that our Batt.
Hdqrs. interferes with our scouting plans every
day. Our Lt. spent more time consulting with
the Major at Batt. Hdqrs. than he did with us.
There is no need to feel disappointed. Sleep is
better than scouting. Guard reports a very dark
night and owing to prolonged quiet and
conditions, it is possible an attack will be
made tonight. Guard is doubled on post below.
While I am awake, I can hear the guard halting
everybody who passes and the steady firing of
a 75 in back of us. I still sleep alone, taking up
space two should occupy, while some men
sleep on the floor. During the night I am
awakened frequently, when the reliefs are
made and when an extra heavy explosion
disturbs me. I have a dream. Mr. Willetts has
bought a half interest in my business while I
have been in Europe and has incorporated it.
Leah has been taken into partnership and will
travel through Pennsylvania selling stock for
the concern, which seems to me to be a get
rich quick scheme. Other complications,
which make me laugh to myself. Someone
remarks that this is no war, because twenty
miles from No Man's Land men are playing
pinochle and singing "Ally Up". It may just as
well be accomplished in No Man's land,
weather permitting.