Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 8 May 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 

Wed. May 8, 1918
Weather: Fair, Mild
Health: Good
Up at 5:30. This will be a big day's work for
men. They go out on drill field to remain all
day. Field kitchen and water carts go along.
Mess in field. Drill, gas, bayonet, dig trenches
under simulated battle conditions. Breakfast,
oatmeal, bacon, toast, coffee. Have time to
shave, wash and tidy up before reporting to
Batt. Hdqrs. for duty. Finish E Company
payroll in early forenoon. Begin on F, less
involved. Before noon preliminary work is
done. It is cold in the office while outside the
sun warms wonderfully. Hands and feet numb.
Must rub them to keep up circulation. Clear up
and call off figures outside in courtyard,
walking up and down to relieve stiffness in
limbs. Get away for mess early because I do
not know what arrangements have been made
to feed men who remain behind on special
duty. I may have to go out to kitchen in drill
field. Pass courtyard where kitchen was to find
one cook left behind who has made coffee
over a fire of faggots and is serving
sandwiches, cheese, jam. Do not go for my
own mess kit, but borrow one from cook. He fills it up with bread, cheese, marmalade and
jam. Double ration for first portion. Help
myself to as much more as I like. Good coffee.
Sgts. MacWhinney and McGay entertain us
with observations of activities at front. Go to
quarters to get my overcoat. I propose to throw
it over my knees to use as a blanket for
warmth. Good idea. Much more comfortable
working. I go outside for a few minutes to
stretch my limbs. Orderly Kelly tells me that
mail has come in from the States and that he
has seen letters for me in pile. I imagine he is
jesting but consider it is worthwhile to go to
our orderly room for the possible pleasure of
reading a letter from Leah. I promise to buy
Tallon a bottle of wine if I find a letter from
home. Go with a light heart. Our company
clerk, the man who never smiles, gives me no
encouragement, except a listless yes to my
question, making me wait a long time before
he bestirs himself sufficiently to sort my
letters from pile. One from Leah and one from
Mama. The happiest moment since April 2nd
when baby was born. Thank God for cheerful
news her letter contains. The bravest little girl
in the world wrote that letter and the most
loving one. I, Leah and Baby become the
owners each of a Liberty Loan Bond of the
third issue. I am officially noted by citizenry
of Staten Island as being with the colors.
Happy that Leah was strong enough to write
one week after the baby was born. Please God
she will remain strong and brave. Can work
only with difficulty after reading letters.
Officers come in but I continue reading.
Tallon has a bottle of wine coming to him. At
6:10 I finish work. Get mess kit. Men have
just come back, tired and perspiring. Meet
Captain as company is dismissed. He wants to
know what I am doing. I tell him. He is not
pleased. He wants me for machine gun squad.
Supper, cheese, jam, bread, figs, coffee. After
mess I intrude on a group cleaning machine
guns. Corporal tells me he has recommended
me for permanent assignment. I am to report
to him when relieved of present duties. Better
than being expected to kill a man with a
bayonet. Watch gun being assembled. Return
to write until 8:30. Then go in search of Tallon
to buy his wine. I peep into office of major.
Tallon at work. Looks very busy. Best to wait
for a favorable opportunity to present itself.
Meet Callahan and two men of his squad, all
far from being temperance men who are
detailed to close up saloons. Like a New York
policeman's job. Two other men from
company are detailed to guard water carts.
Back in billets Read letter from Leah once
more in failing light. Make bed and go to
sleep. Restless all night Thank God for the
letter from Leah and pray for the continuance
of the good health of my two girls. Heavy
bombardment all day long. Kept up all night
without a stop. A big squadron of aeroplanes
go over to the front. We from our position, far
back in the lines, think that all the world is at
war, every cannon in the world being fired at
once, in spite of the fact that bulletins posted
at Hdqrs. tell us that it is quiet at the front,
situation unchanged, etc. During the night a
successful air raid was carried out somewhere
in the neighborhood. I do not hear report of
bombs which were dropped. Everybody else
did. Searchlights play, anti-air guns fire at
planes. We do not know result.