Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 25 July 1918.

Nationality: Australian

Text: 

Thu. Jul. 25, 1918
Weather: Fine, Warm
Health: Good
Go to .........
Up at 6:30. Syrop wakes me as he had
promised. Upon entering, tell the Mess Sgt. I
am going away and want to eat early. He
.............. me with bacon, syrup, bread, coffee.
Hurry to wash and shave. While doing these
things, I get orders from the boys for
souvenirs, handkerchiefs. Get French money
from Mitchell in exchange for last 10 dollar
bill of our money remaining. Borrow 35 Frs.
from Himpler, fill my canteen with drinking
water. Take a pistol, helmet, gas mask and .....
and at 7:30 I am on my way. Three aeroplanes
up as usual. Take the new road downhill all
the way, to ........ . On the road I am surprised
to find Hackett and a squad of men combing
it. They are ambitious looking boys. Glad to
see me. I tell them what I have been doing in
the few minutes I spend with them. Go on till
almost in ........ when I see Del 100 yards down
the road. He steps out and begins to smile and
welcome me before I am well in sight. He also
has a squad of men working on the roads. He
is most pleased to see me and I tell him how
good it is to see him. Tells me news of
company while I rest. He is angry at the army
for having sentenced me to two weeks in the
239lines and also at Captain McMurtry for not
having permitted him to go back to the States.
He was a more logical candidate than
Guttenberger. In the company orderly room,
after I got news of Capt. Condon, from
Cluster. Say Hello to Capt. I expected him to
show more interest in me than he does. Corp.
Haight just as phlegmatic as ever. He goes to
OT 6. More his understudy, assuming the
same air of unconcern. Ask for my pay, which
has been turned back to Div. Personnel
Bureau. Requisition for shoes and underwear,
which I am told is all I can get. Hear that Sgt.
Greenstein has found my old letters at Indian
Village. I look for Astrove to get
corroboration of the death of Harry Schneider.
He has learned soon after the fatal raid of his
death. Sgt. Lennon knows him too. Off to
........ to look up Sgt. Greenstein. I find him.
He tells me that Rubin or somebody picked up
some of my letters, last time he was there. I
find Rubin. He knows nothing about them. I
ask the others if they have seen my letters. I
look for them myself but find nothing.
Imagine I have not very much time and wish
to push on, asking boys to look for my letters
and hold them for me if they find any. Rubin
gives me 20 Frs. for the money he owes me. It
is welcome. Meet Greenstein, Goldberg,
Eddington, at the fork of the road. They are
waiting for a lorry to take them to ........ . They
have rations for the day with them and invite
me to have dinner with them in ........, and
share what they have. Tell me how everybody
resents my unjust sentence. We wait a long
time till a lorry comes. A most welcome lift up
the steep hill. Much jesting. In ........ we go to
a house where Greenstein has bunked and
woman will make our dinner for us. On the
road I see the 2nd Battalion scouts. Red
Shannon hails me to tell me that Archer has
some of my lost letters. I do not know how he
knew I had lost them and doubt if he has them.
One of the boys takes me to him and sure
enough gives me a bundle of letters, which I
am most happy to see again. Accompanying
them is a cute note from Archer. I thank them
all and go up to the house. The woman makes
wonderful embroidered laces by hand. I make
a bargain with her for five collarettes at 75
Frs. Pleased with my purchase. Stay for
dinner. Steak, chips, salad, beans, bread, beer,
coffee and service. A young mother and an old
spinster our hosts. Smoke and read the paper
until Baby is brought in. I think of my Cecilie,
whom I have not seen. This is a pretty baby. I
want to kiss her, but I cannot. I want to wait
till I get home before I kiss babies. I play with
her but even that is too much a reminder of
home, so I run away. I go outside. At 1 o'clock
I leave for ........ . A good road, but dusty. MP
asks for pass. Tell him I have one. Pass him. A
wonderful scene before me. Golden grain in
sheaves in field and farmers cutting it. I am
tired and hot but go on without resting.
Strange men in town. I help two women lift a
bag of oats on truck. Ask who is in town. No
definite answer. Buy a tomato. Shop for
handkerchiefs. Buy some good ones. Then to
cut glass shop. Much difficulty in making a
selection. Finally decide on two small vases
for buffet. Perfect cut glass. They come to 60
Frs. I look to see how much money I have.
Only 50 Frs. I have to look for something else
or go away without anything. Nothing else
takes my fancy. Induce proprietor, who talks
English well, to let me have the selection I
made, promising to send the difference to him.
Leaves me without money for postage. Will
take packages back to Griffiths to OK. He cuts
a monogram in both of the vases. Packs them
in a box filled with straw. I insert a card for
Leah. Go back to the boys at once. The most
wonderful scene I have ever looked upon.
Hills, mountains, fields and the village
nestling in the valley. A hot walk of 3/4 hour.
Meet Archer and thank him for his kindness in
salvaging my letters. The boys are waiting for
240me. I wash. Supper ready in ten minutes.
Steak, chips, salad, omelette, beer, coffee.
Baby looks very pretty. I play with her. Old
man and the boy comes home. Hard workers.
See children with tin cans tied to their feet.
6:30. I start back to ........ . Greenstein forgets
things and must go back. We wait in the road
for him. A lorry comes down. He is in it. We
get on and go to our destination. They must
get out at ........ . I go on to ........ . All the boys
from the company in the square. They come to
attend a concert to celebrate the opening of a
Salvation Army Canteen. In the orderly room,
Pimpl calls me aside to tell me he has
something for me. More of my old letters. My
cup of joy is complete. He wants the reward I
promised Mullin. Three aeroplanes up. See
Haight about mailing my package. As usual I
get no satisfaction from him. Hang around for
a while, trying to get some information about
our next move. Get none. Hear that Reilly is in
the hospital. On way again to my quarters by
foot, up the steep hills. A terribly warm walk
My wind surprisingly poor. Must stop to pant
and wipe sweat frequently. Road seems four
times longer than it really is. Dark when I get
back to barracks. Boys had given up hope of
seeing me. I rest and cool off, then give them
the handkerchiefs I have purchased for them.
My shopping tour a success. Everybody
pleased, except those whom I forgot about.
McLeary's check I have forgotten to cash.
Chocolate could not be purchased. Put away
my packages until to-morrow, intending to
write. Cannot get hold of ink. I am tired, so
make no serious effort to do so. Hear that Lt.
Griffiths goes home to the States. Wade is
summoned before the Major and told to roll
pack. He is drunk when he goes up. Howe
helps him. In ten minutes order changed. He is
to wait till to-morrow and turn in all his stuff.
We think he will be punished. Mystery
surrounds the affair. Go to bed at 10. In spite
of itch and hard bed, I find it hard to stay
awake long enough to say my prayers. Wade
and Howe are having a contest as usual for the
honor of telling the best smutty story. Sleep
well. I have spent all my money and am in
debt about 50 Frs. Boys agree I purchased
well, when I show them the pretty laces. They
all would like to own some. See old men
threshing grain. Entire town is busy with the
harvest. Renny is still with 2nd Battalion
scouts. Nothing has been done to punish him.