Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 11 May 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:


Sat. May 11, 1918
Weather: Fair, Mild
Health: Good
Up at 5:00. Breakfast. Bacon, bread, coffee.
Company goes out for a day afield. Field
kitchen, water carts, all equipment goes along.
Rifle practice most of day. British praise our
marksmanship. I have an hour and a half to
myself. Wash, shave, get out a pair of new
leggings from the bottom of the barrack bag.
All dressed up. Go to Hdqrs. to finish work on
payroll. Major and officers already out on
field with men. The office is quiet giving
every one an opportunity to put in a lot of
work. Finish last company payroll and go over
addition of columns to check. Find one error.
Convert amounts to francs. At eleven o'clock I
go up to Divisional Hdqrs. to find out whether
money can be drawn today or tomorrow as we
move within 48 hours. Area billeting officer
has been in and given us tip that orders will
soon come through. Lt. Graham anxious to
pay men off before we march. Acting on
advance information, Sgt. Major begins
packing. At Disbursement Office, but
disappointment awaits us. He will not pay on
rolls as made out. Insufficient data and non-
compliance to forms prevent him from paying.
He will look over sheets personally this
afternoon and do his best to put them through.
Too bad he had not paid sufficient attention to
payrolls day we reported for instructions. I
come back with Fox who accompanied us.
Grow eloquent in a tirade against the cruelty
of the bayonet as an instrument of modern
warfare. Get my mess first, then report.
Rations have been left behind for me in
quarters. Two big bully beef sandwiches,
plenty of bread and jam and coffee., I look
with pity at cook, who has built a fine
supplementary oven out of sheet-iron and mud
all for no purpose. Company clerk has news of
movement too. Go back to Batt. Hdqrs. with
letter from Cpl. Height, marked Govt.
Business, probably extra endowment blanks
for Cecilie, which I have made out while
eating. Leave a horseshoe which I found on
way back from Div. Hdqrs. outside gate while
I deliver letter. Go back to billets forgetting to
take it with me. Return for it. Leave word to be called if wanted and where I can be found.
My day‘s work is finished. I start on my own
work by writing. Then I do my week's wash in
field. Cows look on and almost speak. They
look at me and inquire if I will dirty their
drinking water. I assure them I will not. They
test my veracity and go away. Finish in an
hour. Spread clothes to dry on grass behind
our barn. Surprised to find that machine gun
squad is back before rest of company. They
have evaded drill. Leonard and I ask Madam if
she has any milk. She has and in addition she
brings us each a piece of bread and butter and
some cold boiled potatoes. I do not wish to
take her offering but as Leonard avails himself
of her generosity, so do I. We each have two
glasses of milk besides. I remain to chat with
Madam. Tell her about the Draft Army and
conditions in America. She tells me of France.
We understand each other quite well. Begin
writing a letter to Leah. Interrupted to look at
airplanes high up, which appear to be
Germans. Continue lying on grass, sun
shining, until time for mess. Cheese, bread,
coffee. My writing has not pleased me this
afternoon. My thoughts are not fluent. Decide
to try it again, but give it up as a bad job,
deciding to do better tomorrow. Boys have all
been tipped off of movement to different
quarters. Buzzing, false rumors. Official
orders posted on barn door. List of articles to
be put in pack is read first. It is a mule's job.
100 extra rounds of ammunition, extra pair of
shoes, OD shirt, slicker to be carried in
addition to what we had in pack when we
came. Barrack bags to be left behind. Up at
6:45, bags turned in, inspection of packs,
retreat & reveille formations announced for
tomorrow. No Sunday rest if complied with. A
hurried catalog is taken of stuff necessary and
unnecessary, which will be either discarded or
taken against orders. some men already
packing bags. All make small pack, used all
week for drill purposes making extra blanket
available. I take a trip to the village to buy
matches. Return to read paper. Get a bar of
chocolate from one of the boys. Waiting for
Reilly to come back from the Canteen with
probably some cake. He is back at nine with
cake. I am very hungry. Remember I have a
can of bully bee from rations received on last
trip, which I have been saving for emergency,
but as we will receive new rations when we
leave, probably tomorrow, it is no longer
necessary to guard. We have cake and bully
beef as a bedtime repast. All turn in, much
reserved in our thoughts with little discussion
about tomorrow. We have an idea we go to
......... front, where our men have been to
observe. No sound of activity whatever at any
time during the day, which in a manner
considering recent inactivity also confirms
rumor of a five day armistice, which has been
gaining credence among men. In the air only a
few scout planes up, incident in afternoon
excepted.