Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 24 March 1918.
Location: At Home in Camp.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 

Sun. Mar. 24, 1918
Weather: clear, mild Health: good
At Home
Up at 6:30. My mistake. I had intended to set alarm clock for 7:30. Stay awake. Chat and discuss my mission for today until time to get out. Dress, wash, have breakfast. Kiss everybody. Start at 8:30 for 9:00 boat. Get on car which misses 8:50 boat. Buy newspaper and have shoes shined. On boat read for a time and fall asleep. At shop at 9:50. Joe, his brother and Mr. Wertheim waiting for me. We go upstairs and begin discussing terms for selling business. Show my books and bills. Stick pretty well to subject at hand. Occasionally talk of other things which leads me to believe that they are good fellows. Would be pleased to sell to them. Outcome of the conference is that we will probably come together tomorrow. Close shop and walk to Broadway where we part. I go to South Ferry, they to see Harry at his office. 12 o’clock boat. Sleep again in smoking cabin. So very much in need of sleep that I cannot read newspaper for five minutes without getting drowsy. Home at 1. Leah annoyed with me for not closing deal with parties at short notice. She is afraid that she will not be able to go to work much longer. I do not wish her to but I could not do any better. It is impossible to do business so quickly. I tell her not to worry, that in my opinion the deal will be closed tomorrow. Storm blows over. Dinner in the kitchen. Housecleaning for holiday prevents us from using dining room. Chat and read for an hour. Then look over books and go over orders with Leah. Find accounts due me total about $300. Go over finances and make plans for disposal. Give Leah details to complete arrangements for sale. Take a nap for an hour. Call NY World to insert ad for a compositor who is badly needed in shop. Call up Mama. Try to make her believe that it is certain we will get in for Passover Holidays, though I am by no means sure that we will. Father-in-law comes home. Family circle complete. Supper, which is occasion for me to tell stories of Camp life and how I got to rifle range last Wednesday. Call up Dr. Goldberg and ask him to give me a certificate testifying to Leah’s condition. He promises to do so. I dictate same to Leah and mail it to him to copy and sign. Ready to leave for camp. One half hour alone with Leah. A happy one. Give her courage. I know she will not cry. Leave for 10:30 boat. On boat settle myself for a nap. Have napping down to a fine point now. Subway to station. Train has left at 11:04 instead of 11:30 as I had expected it would. Reason for schedule change is return of Negro troops from New York. 12:08 train half an hour late. Meet Jones. Get a good seat fortunately for train has double capacity load. Deliberate whether I should give up pass or lie. Decide to give it up. Jones offers me a drink which I refuse. Settle for another nap. Passes collected by MP. Miss book which I had taken from camp. Train makes excellent time. In camp 2:30. Pleasant night. To bed at once. Seems to me I have more than three blankets on bed which has been made by boys. Do not count them. Am gratified by warmth. Sleep well.
