Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 22 March 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 

Fri. Mar. 22, 1918
Weather: clear, mild Health: good
Up at 6:00. Reveille. Breakfast. Pork chop, shredded wheat, coffee. Police platoon room. Call comes for formation before I can find a broom to sweep under my bunk. Outside, with bayonet, belt and slicker. It has rained during the night and sky looks as though it might release more rain during morning. We start for parade grounds and drill field. Column is led by Major. Purpose not known until we are abreast of bayonet run, a new thing for us. Very few of boys have been over course. Lieut. Kidde, F. Co., takes charge. He is most vigorous officer in camp. Starts from take-off trench and goes over entire course, followed by our Company. A very complicated system of trenches represented here. Lt. Kidde instructs us in positions and insists we swear. He takes us all back to take-off trench. There is too much water in it today, so we start immediately outside of that. Sent over in waves of about 20 men. Jump into first trench, stick an imaginary German, out into space, between trenches, halt until rest of company comes up. Take next position over trench, stick dummies. Next position in “No man’s Land.” Then over an intricate system of trenches. Lunge at two dummies, and out beyond. Excellent if we would only swear. Lt. Kidde shows us how to put steam into blows, but forgets completely to swear. Curry reminds him of it. Back to original position and this time go over without stopping. First I almost injure myself going down into trench, then I stumble and run bayonet into ground. Delayed. Run on to dummy, tired and unsteady. I miss ducking over trenches. Each stride makes me gasp and puff more. Tackle two last line dummies in silence and totter to tree stump for rest. Not the only man completely winded. I have finally decided that a slight pain in both legs, which I have had for four days is chronic and I shall consult doctor next week. Knees are stiff and muscles in legs are strained. Do close order drill on parade grounds. Back to barracks. Slicker wet inside from heat of body. Lie down to rest. Mess. Dinner. Pork and beans. Prepare for inspection of all equipment. Police platoon room. Clean gun. Inspection. Outside to go to Personnel Championship bouts, which are held outdoors in 307th Regt. Drill Field. Benny Leonard, referee. Gen. Bell there. Stay to witness 7 bouts, decision reached in each. Some of them hissed by men. This calls for a rebuke from Gen. Bell on sportsmanship of men. Go back to barracks for mess. Meat balls, potato, prunes, tea. Many hasten to ask McDougall for pass weekend. No dead request. I impress him. Will call later for answer. Shine shoes, wash leggings and underwear, handkerchiefs, etc. Hang up clothes to dry by stove. Make bed and go to orderly room. Lt Cook, Corp. Haight are writing passes. Lt. attempts to frighten me, but I do not let him. Insist on talking to Lt. McDougall. He informs me I have a pass. Happy. Go to K. of C. Hall to telephone Leah. She is overjoyed. Back to quarters to write. I wait to see pass list posted. I cannot believe my good fortune until I see my name on list. Have list of this in Mess Hall for last time report. Chat with boys until lights are put out. To bed at 11. Sleep well. Very tired. Eyes smart. Only cloud in day is that pass list is not up, so I am not sure I will go home tomorrow.