Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 18 January 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Friday Jan. 18, 1918
Weather: clear, mild Health: good, feet hurt a bit
Up at 6:00. Reveille. Steak, potatoes, coffee. Inspection. Drill outside. March to end of camp. Poor work. Cannot hear commands. Back to barracks. Odd boys have to go to rifle range. This announcement provokes curses and grumbling. Boys must go without dinner on a 3 and a half mile hike and shoot 200 or 300 yd. range. Their refreshment consists of corned beef sandwiches and coffee. Childs takes charge and shows his ignorance and amuses us. Boys lay down. Dinner, fish soup, potatoes, bacon. Orderly room to sign exemption blank. Court Martial convenes. Childs takes us out again. With no overcoats. We work until 3:00. I do excellent work. A bird on peak of barracks opposite. A dove of peace I say. Read for a while and fall asleep. Eigenbeer wakes me to ask for a pencil which I give him. Later I grow angry at him for it. Retreat. Captain announces only seven passes. My name not on list. I am bitter because Capt. had promised me a pass. Eases situation by telling us that auto passes will be given. Supper, beef stew, prunes, cocoa. Clean gun and bayonet. Court Martial reconvenes. Prisoner evidently will be acquitted. Make bed. In Orderly Room 3 times about insurance and pass. Pack into Mess Hall. See prisoner gesticulating and evidently protesting innocence. Do an errand for Lieut. Mullin. Go to YMCA to telephone Leah. A long line. A show going on which I look at while I wait. Decide not to wait. Begin job of preparing for inspection in morning. Wash belt and leggings. Shave. Listen with ear to wall in an effort to hear what is going on at Court Martial. Prisoner is taken out of court to give witnesses a chance to testify. There are varied opinions as to guilt of prisoner, and discussion of case. Sgts. of the Guard for the day are witnesses to the proceedings but show themselves true soldiers and will give no information whatever as to what is said or done. Toilet being completed I read a little. Stay in hall and talk and take a little refreshment and at 11:30 to bed. Just in time to hear Fallas talk in his sleep. He was drilling a squad. After some time making plans for tomorrow, fall asleep and sleep well.
