Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 27 March 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 

Wed. Mar. 27, 1918
Weather: mild, clear Health: good
Get chart from Lt. Cook to study signalling
Up at 6:00. Reveille. Breakfast. Police platoon room. Out to drill field. Close order drill until 9:30. Signal men drop out. This time we are wiser and when we get back to barracks we put on overcoats before going to school. Lieut. Cook gives us a few messages to read. Sends us off in pairs and sends us words and sentences put together backwards, an example of which is to be expected in regular work. At school play games to develop mind and send verbal messages back and forth to train memory. Some semaphore and back to quarters for dinner. My work this morning is poor. I am not concentrating. Instead of eating, I shave and manage to get a cheese sandwich later because I want to speak to Lt. MacDougall about furlough. He is too busy. Roll packs and pitch tents in field. I like this work. Today I have a tentmate who does not understand. Back in time for Retreat which is dispensed with for some unaccountable reason. This is taken as significant by some of the men. The fact that no passes will be issued for Passover is also construed to mean that we will be going away soon. Some of the Jewish boys ask my advice about taking leave for the holidays. I advise them not to do so. There is but one Seder Service in Camp. Over to Orderly Room again. Lt. is still too busy to see me. Angry. I go to K of C Hall to telephone Leah. I want to tell her that I cannot come, but I do not know how to. Telephones have been so busy that there is no change to be had in Camp. I borrow some. Wait in line. It occurs to me that Leah has gone home early so I decide I cannot get her in shop. Go back for supper. Then go back to phone. She is not at home. Stayed in shop, so I tell Mother-in-law bad news and promise to call again at 9:00. Lie on bunk until urge again comes to speak to Lt. MacDougall. He has time now but answers my request cannot be granted. Lt. Cook interrupts with an attack intended to frighten me. I pay no attention to him. Angers him. I go out more like a soldier than ever since I have been in camp. Try to read and forget but page is unintelligible. Read much amicably. Lt. Cook in room to rate a man who had been AWOL. My turn next. I hop off my bunk and tell him I am not insolent, a term which he had used to characterize my conduct. He backs down and we discuss relations for an hour and a half much to the amazement of the entire room. He flatters me and appeases my wrath a bit. But I have a semi-promise from him that if we are in the country when baby is born I will get a pass. Refuses to consider our discussion as between officer and enlisted man. Remember I must telephone Leah. Telephones all crowded beyond capacity. Mostly Jewish boys, lines lead back from each box. I wait an hour to get Leah and then can hardly hear her voice. Telegraph offices also swamped. It is now certain that we will move soon. Some artillerymen have already entrained. All day long trucks loaded with equipment ply the roads. Camp is full of visitors bidding their boys goodbye. Trains and station under heavy guard. Catholic boys are asked to go to confession. To bed at 10:30. Watched by Sgt. to see that I went to bed.
