
Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 31 May 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 


Fri. May 31, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
Up at 6:00. Wash. Police. Men must go out
early to lead company over ground, therefore
we eat early. Bacon. bread, coffee. For desert
a few shells are sent over by Fritz. He is using
poor ammunition. 6 or 7 do not explode. I
expect to go out along with the boys.
Surprised. Lt. reads names of men wanted.
Same as those used when last Cos. were here.
Nothing for me to do but loaf, as Griffiths
goes away too. Ditches dug by us, to drain in
case of rain, must be filled in. After this what?
A great shame that this should have to end. I
have become attached to mode of living and
more particularly like to stay, account of
superiority of rations. Of those who stay in
camp, 4 play poker, and I write in my tent
lying on my side till it aches, and the rest haggle over the water question. Who is to go?
To rid myself of kinks, I volunteer to go for as
much as I can carry. Gillece likewise. We go
to farmhouse. Fill dixie and can. A shell
comes out of the sky without any warning at
all. Sounds as though it would end all in the
farmyard. It falls very close at hand, behind
hedge, in open. No one hurt. I go out to gate to
look. Meet Major and General strolling into
Division Hdqrs. I wait their disappearance
before I begin my investigation. Reassured
that no one is skyward, we fill canteens and
dixies. Remove masks, which we have been
wearing since starting for water. It so happens
Lt. comes back just as I was ready to leave
with an order that masks must be worn half
hour in afternoon every day. It is rather
inconvenient, I venture to say. So much the
better. We must become accustomed to
inconvenience. Wear them half way back.
Englishman tells us they must be taken off.
Another shell lands close to us before dust
from the first one has chance to settle. I run to
entrench in a hedge to wait for the next one,
determined to be an eyewitness to the damage
it would cause. Enemy must be aware of my
purpose. He does not wish to entertain me.
Must go back to prosaic task of taking down
tent and putting surplus in blanket roll. Mine is
mostly surplus. I notice others who have
mostly surplus. A few carry their shoes,
slickers, underwear, etc. I reason, if limber
will carry overcoats and blankets, slickers,
shoes, then a great many other things can go
along just as well. Finish in time to lean
against my pack for a back rest, when eating
lunch. Steak, fried onions, fried potatoes,
prunes, coffee, bread. More was advertised,
but there were no takers. Englishman visits us
to get what he can by way of farewell. We find
some members of a wiring school in front of
our tent. They are as ambitious as we are. No
cause to be, for they do not go home yet.
Officer with them thirsty, asks me for a drink.
Write. Lt. goes away for a few minutes,
summoned by Major. Limber comes. Put on
blankets and surplus rations. Lie down to rid
myself of a feeling of heaviness in the region
of the stomach. Were it not for that, I would
not have been able to walk. It is caused by
drinking water when we have a greasy meal. I
have still an hour before detachment goes back
to companies. Nap. Company of Scotsman
playing at war again. We are off at 3:30.
Supposed to be wearing masks till 3:30, so Lt.
takes us into shade of path till then for greater
comfort. Company not ready yet. They are
making up a pack entirely different from
usual. I have a white bag strapped on back,
such as no other man in company has. It can
be noticed at once. Decide not to say anything.
Lots of officers gravitate about it. I have a
valid excuse to offer if I am called upon. I
have been to school. The usual changing of
fashions by adjutant. I account satisfactorily
for the bag when I am asked by Lieut. Four
o'clock starting time approaches and style
correct or incorrect we must start. Platoon
turned so that little men lead. A good idea.
Going very slow. Hot. Fall out for rest after 35
minutes. Lie on road. English officer in car
stops to inspect packs. Pass a shell hole, one of
those which has been meant for RR near
........., our second resting place. A shell
whistles directly over our heads, but buries
itself in the ground, without doing any damage
whatever. Had this one exploded, there would
have been some casualties among our men,
close to road as they were. Staying power
exceeds my expectations. Of course, I have a
shorter pack than they, but I have not had any
training lately. Airplanes scout overhead. Fall
out again in a tall clover field. Very cool and
refreshing. Back in our old billets a half hour
later. A big surprise to me to see us disband
and dismissed without any formal ceremony.
We walk into our quarters any fashion, though
back to original mode of living. I vastly prefer tenting in open. Off pack, bathe in water from
canteen at once. Cooled off. Go to orderly
room for mail. To be distributed later. Supper.
Cheese, bread, jam, coffee. Distributed by our
Sgts. Bad system. Not enough to eat after long
hike. Stay to listen to Sgt. Lemmon tell of
experiences in front line. Marvel at the system
that makes a man like him Sgt. Shave. Wallent
brings in the mail. Four letters from Leah, one
from Sam Friedman. He has a soft berth in
France with Pershing. Read letters. Saddened
at the news that a misunderstanding exists
between Mama and Leah about baby. Clean
gun to be ready for Saturday inspection. I
expect to drill with company tomorrow. With
that in mind, take especial care to have clean
gun and bayonet. Even polish up my uniform.
Go down to get my blanket roll. Brought on
limber and is somewhere near horse corral. I
find it with a little difficulty and bring it back
to billets. Open pack and roll and put away
things as best as possible. Reilly makes bed. I
am afraid that we will get little sleep account
no straw on ground. Reilly is lazy. Should
have been down long before this. Kronenberg
gives me an orange. Notable for being the first
orange I have tasted in 2 months. Bathe my
feet in cold water. Go to bed as soon as
conversation with rumormongers permits.
There is no sleep in store for me. My eyes
close against my will. But hard floor and noise
of drunken Fallace and half-witted Mario
discussing each others merits, a combination
that absolutely prevents sleep. Nothing of note
comes to my knowledge from our front.
Condition remains same after a day of partial
rest. Following rumored destination when next
we move, for which we are once more all
together. Phillipines, Panama Canal, Italy with
Pershing.