Authors: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 19 May 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 


Sun. May 19, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
Up at 6:45. Reveille. 1st. Lieut. in command.
Capt. has been promoted to assist Major.
Announcement made that no one will be
permitted to go to ........ without a pass. I was
anxious to go to buy some presents for Leah,
Cecelia and Mama. I hate to ask Lt. for a pass.
We are not better related than when at Camp.
Other instructions about inspections during the
week are given. Notice posted about show the
Co. is giving at the Gas Field, Tuesday night.
Breakfast. Rice, jam, bread, coffee. Air
blankets. Wash and shave. Look about for a
bucket in which to wash my clothes. All being
used. Much in demand. Some of the men have
gone to a stream down road past ranges, where
they can wash clothes and bathe their feet. I lie
on grass over Reilly’s shelter tent half and
write a check for Rachel to buy a bouquet for
Leah with. Write a letter to Mama. Enclose a
duplicate check with instructions to be used in
event that other goes astray. Tiresome lying on
my stomach. Change places to shady spot.
Take a nap while I write. Stay there until
Mess. I take my letters with me to Orderly
Room. Ask Lt. to OK, explaining that it
contains nothing of military value. He says to
stay while he looks at it. He turns to last page,
at once, and he puts his OK on it without
reading contents. OK on envelope. I seal it and
give it to Company Clerk. Wait under a tree
until Mess is ready. It is an hour late, but
worth waiting for. Act. Capt. is playing ball
with the men. I lie in readiness to catch a ball if one comes my way. None comes. He does
not appear to notice me. Continues batting ball
until it is lost. Dinner. Steak, onions, potatoes,
bread, coffee. A good meal. Hot water to wash
dishes too. Real comforts. Back for a little
rest. Clean my gun. Lie down with
Kronenberg in the shade without OD shirt or
shoes or socks on, after having washed a suit
of underwear, 2 prs. of socks, 2 towels, 2
hdkfs. I have paper and pencil with me. Also
binoculars to look at scout planes which are up
in numbers. I write a letter to Matt and one to
Lou. Supper. Cheese, jam, bread, coffee,
write. When it is dark Reilly proposes a walk.
I consent. We get outside on road only a few
paces from house, when a military policeman
makes us return to quarters. Everybody off
roads at 9:00. Sit down against a wall of barn
outside and talk with Reilly of Staten Island.
Moon is so bright that I can read a paper by
light of it. Go to bed at 10. Artillery has been
active major portion of day and since nightfall
has doubled in intensity. Ground rocks from
force of repeated shocks. I feel a little bit
shaky from continued thunder of guns. As I lie
down Reilly says he hears Boche planes.
Strain my ears, but it seems like our own
motors are heard. Nevertheless, I am
frightened for the first time since coming to
France. Lying on my back I think that if the
plane, which hovers right over our barn flying
low, apparently were to drop a bomb on us,
there would be the end of me. I would not like
to die like that. I cannot sleep for the thought
of it and the persistent rattling of the artillery
beyond. A big night's work out there. I count
the wounded, see the dying and picture the
misery of those at home. I lie awake for hours,
sick with sorrow for Leah and with bitterness
at myself for not having stayed on train when I
was on my way home to see Leah and baby.
From the sleepers at the left end of barn comes
the sound of singing, faint at first, but swelling
in volume as the sound goes on. A sweet
voice, weird, uncanny, under the
circumstances. Men awake or have been
awake for the same reason as I, laugh. A few
minutes interval. He repeats his songs. Men
begin to complain. To cap the climax, Tallon
begins a song. A foolish, sloppy one. Shouts
from everybody. Silence soon after except for
the guns. Broken slumber for the rest of the
night.