Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 15 July 1918.
Nationality: Australian

Text:

Mon. Jul. 15, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Fair
Up at 8:00 with a problem on my hands.
How was I to avoid being put to work with
prisoners. There is an air of quiet and
thoughtfulness about the men. They are very
anxious to knew what Stewart's condition is.
No one knows and it is too early to find out.
Renny has slept peacefully and is still asleep
when I go downstairs for my breakfast, a half
hour after arising. There is bacon, bread and
coffee. I am tired naturally, and want to go
back to bed again, while our men are shelling
the Germans again in that peculiar lazy
manner, which seems to indicate they are only
working their guns to keep them from rusting.
Everybody takes advantage of the effect the
tragedy of last night has on the Lt., who is in
bed, by also going to sleep for a few more
hours. I have made up my mind not to bother
about reporting, and to wait until I am called
or sent for. If by twelve o'clock I am not sent
for, I will report sick after lunch. Get up again
at 10:30. Wash and shave at the stream behind
the house, refreshing me considerably. Were it
not for the fact that I was constipated and
feeling the effects of last night, I would be
enjoying myself to-day, it is so beautiful. The
sun is hot and bright. The sky is deep blue,
clear and high. As yesterday, my short stay at
the stream is a signal for Fritz to open up with
his shells. His target is the same as yesterday. I
do not linger long, for Fritz is not to be
trusted. Upstairs to write. It is quiet and I can
do so undisturbed. I smile to see Renny sitting
on the floor in his room, cleaning his rifle. I
believe no one has said a word to him this
morning, nor has he had anything to say.
Dinner is delayed to-day There is not much to
eat, the fault of the supply man, who is not
sending sufficient ration. Men and lieutenant
complain. A small piece of steak, potatoes,
bread, coffee. Wash my mess kit, tidy my
bunk and go in search of Corp. McGovern in
charge of work squad. I cannot find him, after
a diligent search. I see some of the prisoners,
who find an opportunity to admire me for
"getting away with it". I protest I had been
sick and look much concerned over not being
able to find the leader, though I don’t care and
in fact would prefer it if I never found him. I
am thirsty and look for a drink of water,
promising to come back in a few minutes. On
my way back, I run into the corporal, he
recognizing me at the same time. I tell him my
tale of woe, and how I would like to see the
doctor first. He cannot excuse me and suggests
I talk to the captain. I find the captain busy
with a French officer and some maps. I cannot
interrupt. Wait an hour, in the meantime doing
a few small errands for the corporal after
222which I protest that the doctor will soon be in,
whereupon I am excused to report after my
consultation with him. I find out on my way
back that the doctor will not be in until 4:10,
which gives me an hour to write. At 4:00, I go
to the infirmary. The doctor has not yet
arrived. So I read and go upstairs to the
prettiest room in town where there are a piano,
a rug, arm chairs, etc. Hear that Stewart is
badly wounded. The doctor comes. I tell him
my trouble. He gives me a big dose of castor
oil. An old favorite of mine. To report to-
morrow if I do not feel better. Report to
McGovern, this time telling him the history of
my case and suggesting I seek the Captain
after I have my mess, so that I can get an easy
detail apart from the prisoners. That suits him
and I go back for a mess of beef stew, bread,
coffee. As I go to wash my mess kit, I meet
Renny in the garden. He tells me how the
accident happened. The pistol was fired as his
hand hit the wire, when he turned to see who it
was that was approaching him. He is a
penitent lad and seems glad that he has been
ordered back to his company to rest. I console
him by fibbing about Stewart's condition. He
says the Major has been to visit Stewart and
finds him getting along nicely, which does not
jibe with what I have heard, yet he may be
right. The castor oil is working and I have
cramps. I look for Capt. Sturges at his dugout,
a hot half hour's walk from my quarters. I see
a Boche aeroplane driven down, wounded by
our shelling. He is having a hard time to keep
his machine from crashing to earth. Capt. is
not in dugout, so back to Chateau
Headquarters. I find him in the act of reading a
list, which should contain my name. I am
listed as sick. I interrupt and tell him my story.
He understands perfectly and assigns me to his
mess. Fine. A good meal is in sight at last.
Wants me to bunk with cook. Promise to get
my things up some time before dark. A
wonderful sunset. I do a little more writing. At
eight-thirty I put my things in a shelter half
and leave the boys, thanking them for their
hospitality, wishing them luck and hoping to
see them again. I report to cook, get a fine bed
in a large room with a window, which I leave
open when I put away my things. It is light
enough to write for a half hour and then by
candlelight. I add to Leah's letter. A corporal
sent up from his company to act as runner,
sent to my room to look for a bunk. He is a
chatty fellow with whom I spend more than an
hour on the causes, etc. of war, putting by
Leah's letter to be finished to-morrow. Ask
about gas guard, dugouts, etc. After an hour‘s
discomfort from the physic I had, I fall asleep
to enjoy a real good night‘s rest, undisturbed
by anything determined not to work hard
tomorrow. A report of casualties from
bombing during the night before.
