Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 21 July 1918.

Nationality: Australian

Text:


Sun. Jul. 21, 1918
Weather: Cloudy, Warm
Health: Good
Up at 4, after a night of little rest, cold and
stiff and sore. I had just a faint hope that I
would not be called. Most of us go down to
the kitchen to work. One plays sick and a few
hide or disappear after they have reported.
Before we have our own breakfast, we take the
mess to the boys in the lines. I go with the
Greek corporal. I am shown consideration by
the Sergeant, who suggests that I carry the
bread only, because I shouldered the coffee
twice yesterday. I am given a can of syrup too.
It leaks, so it is put in a pail. Half way down
the street, the corporal calls to my attention
that the pail leaks too. The syrup has run down
my clothes, my coat. My trousers, my leggings
and shoes are all sticky. A fearful mess. I
scrape some of it off with a knife, put a handle
of iron on the pail and carry my burden
carefully and gingerly for the rest of the
journey. The way seems shorter than
yesterday, so at a certain point I cannot believe
I am near and think I have gone wrong, and
promptly do so. I make a detour, which costs
me fifteen minutes of anxiety and valuable
time, before I get back. I try to hide in a
sniper’s post to escape the job of taking the
mess to the outposts, which are a mile of
trench distant. It is an unsuccessful ruse. I
232must go. The walking is good. A deep trench
except in a few spots, which have been caved
in by shells. Disgusted with the war before I
get to our destination with Tommie and a
Sergeant to guide us. Before I get back, I am
worse in the dumps. As we leave the post to
go back, we meet a party of three coming from
another post. One of the men is from the
........th, from a raiding party, which has been
out in the night. He became detached from
them in the dark and lost his way. Out all night
in a shell hole and wanders into our sector as
soon as it is light. We head to the road which
will take him to his mates. Back in the kitchen
at 7. Have breakfast. Bacon, bread, coffee with
milk and a few prunes, which I steal. My only
wish now is to get some sleep. I have a copy
of the Stars and Stripes. Lie down on the
couch in the parlor, read the paper and would
have fallen asleep at once if it were not for the
flies. I use my newspaper as a screen and
manage to get an hour and a half's sleep.
Corporal comes looking for a detail. He does
not disturb me. I am grateful. Begin a letter to
Annette. Finish it before mess. Corporal does
not disturb me to carry noon mess to the lines.
Dinner a good one. Roast beef, potatoes,
bread, crullers, coffee with milk. Back to write
a letter to Leah. I may be disturbed to go on
detail, which is to carry reserve ration back
into the reserve lines. It begins to rain, which
postpones the corporal's call for a half hour or
so. He comes when the rain stops. On wheel
barrows we must move 58 cases of reserve
ration, which weigh 107 pounds apiece. An
awful job. The ordeal is prolonged by the
supply sergeant in charge, who misleads us. I
am afraid we will be seen by Jerry, OBs and
shelled. Not an unusual proceeding with them.
Wheel barrows break down, we sweat like the
devil, we swear and rest frequently. I have a
load of 4 cases on a rickety barrow with the
aid of two other men to help push. Over hill
we need 7 men to pull our load. After 2 hours
we are at the dugout, which will hold the
cases. There we are told we will not have to
carry mess into the lines. Some of the men
start back. I do not trust in the promised
release from the unpleasant job and hang back.
Get my mess kit and take barrow back to the
kitchen. The mess has not been taken out yet
and the order is that the first man finished will
have to go out. I have always been a slow
eater. I am always last to finish eating. There
are quite a few discussions and fights among
the men on account of the order. One party
starts out. The other to the farthest post,
cannot be procured. The men refuse to go. I
remain passive, say nothing. Get back to
quarters unseen. Mess Sgt. sends orderly with
an order from Capt. for two men. Refusal
means severe punishment. I argue out of it.
Take off my shoes and stockings to apply
ointment on my sore feet, which are growing
worse. Have the Sanitary man bandage it for
me and change my socks. As a result of the
refusal of the men to take the mess out, we
must all move to a building near the kitchen to
be under the orders of the Mess. Sgt. I get
ready to go, picking up my stuff, putting it into
a shelter half, without making a pack. On the
way downstairs I meet one of the men who
tells me I am to be dismissed. Joy. Mess Sgt.
tells me I am free and to report to Company
Hdqrs. Also gives me my mail. 4 letters from
Leah, one from Morris, Lottie, Esther
Karmiohl, Rachel, and a wedding invitation
from Mandy. It strikes me as humorous. A
Sgt. will accompany me to Hdqrs. It is a
wonderful moonlit night, but warm. I am
wringing wet by the time I get up the hill.
There I find no one from my company has
called for me, which is necessary before I am
released. I must go back to town. In the
meantime, the Sgt. has a lot to talk about to
the officers. I read all but one of my letters.
All good news, thank God. Pictures of Morris
and Florence. A touching note from Papa
233written by himself. An action in the lines,
which sounds like trench mortars were
working. Does not last long, but Lt. is worried.
Seems close or in his sector. Go back at 11:30.
A most wonderful moonlit panorama below.
The town seen as in daylight. Can see to read
by the light, so bright is it. The Sergeant is
nervous. He is afraid we will be seen and
sniped at. I tell him we are within our own
lines. He starts at the sound of our footsteps on
the gravel and at every shadow and noise. In
the town again, I do not know where the men
are, so I step into the place where the runners
bunk. Ask for a place, which is given me
gladly. Sit at their table and smoke their
cigarettes, read the last letter. We talk again of
Harry Schneider, and from a description of a
man one of the boys saw dead after the C Co.
action on the 24th, I am sure Harry died. I am
touched beyond the power of speech to
describe. Silent after the news is told me. Get
a mattress, go to bed after 12. Anxiously
awaiting the morning to go to Harry's grave.
There is more activity to-night than for a long
tine. I am afraid it will develop into a major
operation for this front and think of the men in
the lines and the distance they have to retreat
to safety. Afraid to tell Leah about the death of
Harry. Worried that she will think I am in
grave danger, but I must tell, so I will give the
news to Rachel. Leave word not to wake me
for breakfast. I can, almost at any time get a
piece of bread and a cup of coffee from the
kitchen. ........th makes a daylight secret raid
with 50 men of which only 10 return without a
mark. 35 dead and the Captain. A manoeuver
which starts an investigation. A reckless piece
of business.