
Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 14 June 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 


Fri. Jun. 14, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
Up at 5:45. Reveille. Captain wants every
man in company to devote time between
breakfast and 9 o'clock to washing clothes and
if we are fortunate Major will find a brook
where company may bathe later in the
morning. Cheerful news, not because there are
prospects of a bath (most of us have had one)
but because there will be no drill. Breakfast a
surprise. Our American rations, those Capt.
told us to expect have come and for breakfast
there is plenty. White bread once again, rice,
jam, Karo syrup, butter, coffee and bread is all
I get for being late in line. Tent taken down,
wash a pair of socks and a dish towel. Air
blankets. My work is done. I make an effort to
write. Sun is too hot. I become drowsy and
take a nap. Awakened by the whistle. Fall in
with towel and soap. I have no underwear.
Extra suit is in blanket roll which is lost.
March out to a brook running along a patch of
woods about a kilometre from town. Clear as
crystal, slow moving, bottom seems a foot
below surface though in reality it is two.
Minnows playing in weeds along bank
frightened at unaccustomed noise. Squat
wherever we can find a comfortable spot to
undress in. My underclothes very dirty,
especially drawers. First man in kicks up a
wave of mud. Reports water is cold. I am
undeterred. This once I am not last. Some of  these boys are probably more afraid of cold
water than of bullets. Hang back for further
reports. 4th man in. Cook watching
performance. Step in and get a shock. Must
not wince the least bit while he is looking.
Splash about in muddy water for three or four
minutes. Swim not better or worse than in surf
at beaches near home. This water so cold that
legs and feet become numb. I can even feel
my insides being chilled. Lt. looks on and
smiles, a rare thing for him where I am
concerned. Make a remark about temperature
of water after I am out. Draw a civil answer
from him. He goes to join his cronies. I stand
on bank. It is warm in sun. Swing my arms to
keep off horse flies which draw blood when
they bite. After five minutes I go in again,
cake of soap in my hand. Soap up until soap
falls into water. Search for it until I an nearly
frozen. Come out. Dry myself. Dress, all but
undershirt, which I wish to wash when I get
back to camp. A German plane heard
overhead. Lie down to sun myself. Find Lt. is
inclined to let us go back as we please. I take
advantage of his kindness at once. Through
the woods all alone looking for things of
interest and strawberries. Go astray for 5
minutes. Meet Wallert who tells me Haight
wants to see me. My idea is he can want me
for only 2 reasons, either to tell me that Lt. G.
wants me at Division Hdqrs., or that my
blanket roll has been found. Tease myself by
not showing much outward concern and will
wait until I am called again. Boys form in line
for dinner half hour before call sounds. I must
either take foot of line or work my way in. Do
so. Good steak, potatoes, coffee, bread. A new
spirit of independence among the men. They
refuse to pay the price egg trust demands.
Expect to drill in afternoon so make no
attempt to leave camp. Write a letter to Leah.
Lazy, drowsy, take a nap. Assembly blows,
but it is only for non-coms. Thank the Lord.
Another afternoon off. Sit in the shade of a
tree to write. Traveling bazaar comes into
square again. Good business today as
yesterday. Del Duca comes up with 2 boxes of
cigars, l carton of Velvet and some Sweet
Caporals. That attracts my attention first, but
there is something else about him that is of
more importance. It is his manner. "Where are
they?" he shouts. "They" are Goldsoll and
Krause who got Fatima cigarettes and tobacco
at ......... and sold them this morning at 30¢ or
100% profit. Del pulls a stake out of the
ground and makes for Krause. Waiting only
long enough to give a few words of
explanation, he strikes him twice with the
stake, strong blows over the shoulders. Then
with his fist he strikes Krause in the face.
"Give back every cent" he commands. "Where
is the other ___?" Goldsoll at other end of the
field tries to hide out cannot escape
vengeance. He has a pack on his back, being
punished for neglect of duty. That does not
hinder Del from meting out justice. He strikes
him to the ground and has difficulty
restraining himself from kicking him. No one
interferes. Both culprits shout for Sgts. who
will not come to their rescue. Goldsoll puts up
no defense. Hands over the profit he had
made. Fox comes back with a dozen cartons of
Fatimas and sale of cigarettes and tobacco at
NY City prices. Men who paid double prices
in morning have money refunded. I suspected
there was profiteering at previous sale and
could not be induced to buy anything. Even
went so far as to tell men my suspicions. They
were out of cigarettes and would pay any
price. Everybody agrees that Del Duca was
right to beat men. Write a letter to Mama.
Supper. Beans and meat stew, bread, coffee.
Wash my shirt. Start a letter to Matt and the
boys. Write until it is dark. Make bed and go
to sleep at 10 in silence. Sleep well. Lt. C. up
until 12 pulling down tents just for fun. A
traveling tinker comes to town. A bellows, a
handful of coal, a soldering iron, a bench, a stool. He is ready for work. Collects all the
dippers and pots and pans in the village that
need repairing. A rich country. So much fruit
that there is no objection to men taking as
much as they please. Plums, cherries,
gooseberries, currants, grapes. Looking dawn
into the valley from the plateau, fields of
green, patches of brown, clumps of woods,
blue mountains in the distance, a village
shows its red gables to the right of me, one to
the left, a sky of clear blue with fleecy white
clouds. In the village, two very old women, on
a bench outside their window, knitting, greet
me as I pass. Old men arguing volubly.
Children looking at me in wonder, an intruder
upon the peace and quiet of their home. A rifle
range built by Lt. Griffiths. Shave and clean
gun and bayonet before I go to bed. Lt. C.
watching. Our mascot goat is climbing up
walls of tents. They are mountains to him.
Antics amuse everyone. Himpler, Black,
Maloy, Sgt. and Lt. go up to new front
tomorrow for observation. Somewhat
displeased at not being among the chosen.
Rather let a man, who is interested in strife to
the extent of wishing to get into it, go, than
one who would merely like to observe. They
are happily singing themselves to sleep.