Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 3 July 1918.

Nationality: Australian

Text:


Wed. Jul. 3, 1918
Weather: Fine, Warm
Health: Good
We celebrate the Fourth of July
Up at 5:00 to go down to company kitchen
for rations. Get a hot cup of coffee to start off
the day. Carry back a good day's grub. A
picture from home of my mother and father is
given to me. It has been in a bag, together with
bundles of newspapers, for a number of days.
Surprising how well preserved it comes to me.
Wait in the kitchen, talking to the cooks and
writing to Leah, until breakfast is ready.
Bacon, bread, Karo, fried potatoes, coffee.
Wall comes for the men. Two letters for me
from Leah. I thought they were more of the
missing ones, but no, it is new mail. Good
news. A card from Hugo. Wash and police
room. Prepare to go out to 12 post. Corps is
expected to transfer there. Yesterday's post has
been abandoned. On the way to the post I get
four more letters. Three from Mama and one
from Leah. Read them as I walk. Leah has
received Govt. insurance policy. Lottie sends
me news clippings about Yorkville celebrities.
On road and up hillside, I see evidences of
destruction from gas shelling. Never before
have I noticed how it sears and burns the trees
200and grass. Get into 12 very easily. Thurn and
Gillece with me. On post two men are awake
and the remainder sleep. We do not disturb
them, noisy as we are. The night has been very
quiet. Nothing develops. On parapet and in
outpost, one will watch in each. But, where are
my glasses? I was sure I had brought them
with me. I guess I have not taken them with
me. I must wait till the others have done their
tour of duty. In the meantime I sit down to
wonder what has come over me of late. Every
time I go out, I leave something behind.
Observation is poor, that is, it is quiet ahead of
us. Nothing can be seen. I relieve Gillece and
fare no better than he. Position is an exposed
one, from which it is easy to be seen by enemy
observers. No support for the glasses, which
must he held in the hand, a tiring job. While
others observe, I write to Leah seated on a box
in the entrance to the dugout, from which a
strong draft issues. I quickly become chilled
and must stop writing. On post again and
alternate with Gillece until 2:30, when relief
comes. At one time a Sgt. in H Co. looks out
and believes he discovers a German observer
in the gulley below. I take glasses and stick
my head way over parapet in endeavor to see,
but distinguish nothing in the tangle of twigs
and branches. Very hungry and must encroach
on rations of men in post for a bully beef
sandwich. Thurn stays behind to continue his
observations. Gillece and I return to quarters
without a report of any kind to make. In a
hurry for mess. Roast beef hash, potatoes,
tomato sauce, coffee and bread. The afternoon
is ours after we report to the Lt. I write until
supper time. Hash again, bread, coffee. Of
course I am not very hungry. A hint that the
entire party will be asked to volunteer for a
raiding party to go out with Lt. Cook. Write
until 8, when Sgt. comes in to announce that if
any one would like to go with him and Lt. they
may volunteer to do so. No one is anxious to
work with Lt. Cook, I by no means. Sgt. tells
Gillece and me we must go, only to report to
the Lt., stay there all night and bring back a
report of the night's activities. Start out before
nightfall, without the company of other men.
The proposed raid, or whatever it is that was
projected, has been called off. Dark when we
get to headquarters. Told to make ourselves
comfortable. It begins to rain. No comfort
outside, Get into dugout. A queer scene.
Exaggerated as a stage scene. Runners see
officers leave for a little nap. Officers are
supposed to be in the line with the men. Three
of us sit on a bunk to chat. Begin to write.
Runners fall asleep. I write, alone and in
silence, until I finish a twenty page letter.
Officers come in. Awake runners. I go into
next room. Officers praise each other for their
bravery. I reread letter, making a few
corrections. Get as far as page 8. "Everybody
out". I wonder why! Lt. Cook has always been
a joker. I look at him again. He is in dead
earnest. I carefully fold letter, put it away
safely. Get my arms and helmet. Follow the
others upstairs. I do not hear anything yet.
Think it is foolish stand-to order that is to
blame. It is as dark as pitch. We must feel our
way. So dark that we cannot see our hands in
front of us. At head of stairs, a step further,
and my foot hangs in space. Feel about
cautiously. Get on terra firma. Warn the next
man about trench. It is Gillece who I ask to
stick close to me. In my opinion it is best to
stick together. Now I understand why we were
ordered up. A machine gun spits a load of lead
into the darkness. Pop, pop of rifles. Bombs. It
opens up all over the line. I find myself
shivering, my teeth chattering. Plant my legs
firmly on ground. Stiffen up to quiet my
nerves. Men beside me are complaining it is
cold, because they shiver. I know better than
they why. It is not cold. Cloudy and a mist is
falling. We talk in whispers. I keep shouting to
men to keep out of the trench. Told that I will
be shot if I make a noise. I do not understand
201and continue to warn men, who tumble into
the trench. Officers have disappeared
excepting McDougall. I thought they had
started to go to outposts. We are gathered in a
knot and roll called. French Lt. is sent for. I
hear him coming. Revolver in hand, ready to
fire, I halt him. Recognized. I send for
Bernard, interpreter. They converse. Lts.
disclose their positions. They have been
waiting to aid men, to quiet or direct us. My
blood boils. Fighting grows more and more
intense. Bombs are bursting and machine guns
and rifles are working steadily. I, pistol in
hand, still shivering, stand in silence, admiring
the courage of our men, who for the first time
under fire are displaying remarkable coolness.
A barrage called for at our left. A little widely
distributed shelling and the barrage is on. At
first the shells pass over our heads, but with
the first explosion that cannot be heard. At our
backs, see a most wonderful sight. The houses
lit up by the flash of the guns. What a noise.
We must shout to be heard now. Is the other
side replying to our fire? I try to listen. Cannot
distinguish anything but bomb, rifle and
machine gun. A few shells bursting in the
woods, as a precautionary measure, to keep
them from coming over. It rains harder. Orders
being issued by Mac only. Cook is in dugout
with Capt. Sturgis. Seems that battle makes
the night lighter. I am ready to go out if I am
sent. Shrapnel whizz around us at times. As
each bomb or shell bursts, I duck my head, so
that my helmet hides my face from injury. We
must be on the alert for gas. He usually sends
gas to back area. Powder smell is blown back
to us by now. It will be difficult to detect gas
if it comes. Barrage continues for fifteen
minutes with telling results. He sends over
only a few heavy shells, which apparently find
a target in the town. Gradually, the bombing,
machine gun firing and rifle firing grows less
and less. The battle is over. Lt. comes up out
of the dugout with a smile to Capt., saying we
have won. The gang is all here. "My
compliments". How does he know? We are
told we may go downstairs. We remain where
we are to talk about it. Pray that none of our
boys was killed, but how can that be possible?
I expect a big list of wounded and dead and
that casualties will exceed C Co. See some
men coming over crest of rise behind us. Take
no chances. Tell men to be on lookout and halt
the first man that shows himself. It is Stringer.
How did he get there? I go down into the
dugout. There is Rogers on officers' bench.
His feet being bandaged. So, that is the first
one. There must be many, many more.
Stringer comes down, hatless, coatless, no gas
mask, breeches and shirt in shreds, hands and
face torn. He is wet from head to toe,
shivering from cold and from shock. He had
fallen into a shell hole on his way back to
trench from where he was while on ambush
patrol. 3 airplanes up over us, circling about,
directing shell fire from behind lines.