Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 3 March 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Sunday Mar. 3, 1918
Weather: clear, strong wind blowing Health: good
MY BIRTHDAY – I make furnace fire to drive chill out of house. Use art I have learned at camp.
Up at 9:00. Shave and wash. Everybody wishes me happy returns of the day. Help mother-in-law who is washing in cellar by carrying boilers full of wash up and down stairs. Read newspaper nested on stool at Leah’s feet with my back and head warmed by the sun. It is good to be home thus, but there is a load on my mind which I care not relieve myself of. I feel it isn’t right to keep anything from Leah. Bertha comes and is surprised to find me at home. Fact is, we all consider it an extraordinary stroke of luck to be home for my birthday. I go to work on books, Leah sitting on stool. Find them so unsatisfactory that I decide to close up business. Of course the nearness of my departure hastens that decision. Leach calls with a camera. I have my picture taken in uniform outside. Sun is so strong that I squint. Have a fine Sunday dinner made especially for me. Leach entertains us with stories of his experience on travels and tells us of conditions in England as told to him by Englishman he met on a recent trip out West. Takes Rebekah’s and Bertha’s picture. A cake which was sent to me by girls in Rachel’s school must be packed up to take back to camp. I had a piece of it in morning for breakfast. Excellent. All other boxes of presents and picture of Leah packed in bag read y for going away at 9:30. Read. Take a nap with Leah sitting beside me. Uncle Morris, Sam and Hetty Agar and husband come. A discussion on draft is begun and waxes hot. Leah becomes excited in defense of my various appeals for exemption while I sit tight and say nothing. Supper. Time for me to go. Leah follows me upstairs. Am alone with her for a few minutes. Fearing an outburst of tears, I induce her to go downstairs. Uncle Morris prepares to leave. He kisses me. I am surprised into kissing him. I will get same boat as he, but do not ask him to wait for me. Say goodbye realizing it may be for last time. Keep careful watch on Leah, intent on preventing her from crying. She is brave and promises not to. A hopeful goodbye and courageous on part of both of us. Walk to ferry. Thoughtful. Meet Uncle Morris in Ferry House. We ride across together in smoking cabin. He is under impression that I am going right across to France. I let him think so. Subway to Atlantic Avenue Station. Almost miss the train to Jamaica. From there a very quick trip to camp. Read until I am tired. Lean back in seat and try to sleep a bit, but cannot. Thankful for warmth and comfortable seat. In camp by 1:00am. No evidence of booze. Everyone well behaved. Cold. To bed at 2:00. Sleep well. Jones has made my bed, not to my liking.
