Author: Frederick Harold Tubb.

Date: 2 June 1915.
Nationality: Australian.


Wednesday June 2, 1915 Hampton & Anderson turned up. Fined them 2 days pay & 3 hours pack drill! Eller & Capt Robin have gone in on leave to fix up matters not completed yesterday. There is no official confirmation of the loss of the Implacable, so I suppose it is not true. All accounts of the Aust doings speak highly of their grand courage and dash. I wonder if Australia has had all the news yet? A refugee camp is on the way in to Alexandria. The folk there seem all sorts of breeds. Many of the women are quite fair. There are a lot of Turks here, & many of the Egyptians are anti British also. The weather is very hot and our Camp is very dusty. The horses are not looking too well. A lot of them are filling up in the legs, a dropsical kind of swelling I don't like it. The light horses especially those that are clipped seem to stand it better I suppose that the cooping up on the boat for 6 weeks be the chief cause of the trouble to the horses [[3?]]pm Quite a stir amongst the few men in the
 
Camp. One of them has just been bitten by a scorpion ligatures were promptly applied and I operated with th a razor. This is the 3rd case of my men being bitten by scorpions since we came here. The effects are serious. My batman was paralysed for over 24 hours through a bite. The scorpions are very big, in some cases about 4inches long, like a fat crap with a very long sting. The horses are all out under Lt. Bolton, & Mr Bain is away so I am in command temporaly. Thursday, I notice that Lt Berwick who joined us on the Novian at Lemnos name is amongst the killed in this mornings Gazette. Made out size roll of men. We are drawing from ordnance jackets, trousers, helmets, boots, to day The clothing is much needed, many of the men are ragged! Went into Alexandria  - at 10am. visited the Base office at the Metropole hotel, got a "state" from there as follows Field return dated 2/5/15 Effective strength officers   other ranks 14     458 War Establishment 32     994 Wanting to complete   18   536 Total casualties reported to date 3.6.15 officers so0 30 other ranks 700 - including killed, died of wounds, wounded and missing
The above does not include killed on the field since 2/5/15 As there was the big attack on the 8th of May & the Cape Helles charge etc, goodness knows how we stand at present! I went out to Victoria Hospital to look for Col. McKay, our Brigadier, he had left to stay as the Savoy hotel yesterday I found out. I saw Col C. Nicoll & had a long talk with him. He is pretty bad & cannot move his body without assistance. He was very brave & he is looking forward to getting well again - It is hard luck for him to be confined to his bed for so long- I trust that he will fully recover. Went to the Savoy & found the Brigadier out I met Capt McGee 1st Bn 1st Bde he was wounded also. Found the Col Brigadier at 1pm & presented my papers application to join my Bn at the front from me & an application from Frank for a Commission - (Our papers had been sent back to us from the M. Base asking for recommendation & signature from the Senior officer your Bn & a request from the Bn asking for me. The Brigadier was grand  & he soon recomended minuted the papers strongly recommending us.  for & Me for the front & Frank for a commission
 
The minute on my papers from him is as follows. Base Commandant "Owing to the very numerous casualties in the 7th Bn under my Command Lt Tubb's services are required at Gallopoli". He has previous experiences as a Regimental Officer and I recommend strongly that he be sent to the front to his Bn by the next steamer." J W. McKay Col Coming 2nd Inf Bde Alexandria


