Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 27 July 1918.

Nationality: Australian

Text: 

Sat. Jul. 27, 1918
Weather: Raining, Mild
Health: Good
Capt. Mills dies two hours after he
arrives in hospital
Up at 7:00. It is raining. Prospects of going to
........ not very bright. Reluctant about going to
breakfast, but, as no one will bring it to me, I
must go for it myself. Rice and prunes, of
which I can never get enough, bread and
syrup, coffee. Wash and go back to bed for a
few minutes. Wonder what to do about
packages I want to send home. I enclose 1
piece of lace each, in five tobacco cans and go
up to Lt. Griffiths quarters to wrap them up.
He is pleased to see me and begins making out
a pass for me, before I have anything to say. I
was thinking if to-morrow would not be just as
well to ask for a pass on account of the rain.
Then, by thinking that even if I start at 1, I will
have time to do my errands. I take the pass and
tell Lt. that I will go as soon as it clears. He
wants me to get for him a suit uniform, which
may be ready, waiting for him at the officer's
club, or the pharmacy. Also a pair of boots,
which he is having repaired in ........ . Gives
me money and OKs package I have ready and
puts his signature on the wrappers I am to use
for others. Leaves with Lt. K(?). I remain in
his quarters for an hour wrapping and
addressing packages. Sun comes out for a few
minutes now and then, but afterwards it rains
worse. Look for mail clerk to stamp packages
with regimental censor stamp. That takes an
interminably long time. One package not OK
and he will not stamp it. I look for an officer
to put his signature on it. Pass and repass Lt.
Kiefer without noticing him. Finally look
close and see him. He is glad to accommodate
me. All set now. Lt. Cooke and Major being
shown by Tedisco how accident in which
243Capt. Mills lost his life, occurred. Cooke looks
important. Go back to quarters with my
packages. Decide that in any case I will wait
until after mess before I go to ........ . It rains
and stops. Write until mess in my bunk. Mess.
Bacon, stewed corn, bread, coffee. I am
hungry immediately after. Take commissions
from the boys, who want things from ........ .
Gillece and Conway are going to Company
Hdqrs. at ........ . Gives me the courage to start
out. Get my packages and slickers in addition
to my other equipment and I am on my way by
a new road to ........ . It looks like more rain at
any moment. Windy. A beautiful scene from
the plateau. Miles of the surrounding country
can be seen. Ripe grain and crops going to
waste, because of a shortage of farm labor. In
the YMCA trying to buy some crackers or
anything that can be eaten. All out of things.
Try Salvation Army next door. Get candy and
cake. It rains heavily. Looks for a time like a
continuous downpour. It stops in half an hour.
The sky clears and again my plans change.
Instead of remaining at the YMCA to write, I
try to go on to ......... . A truck outside of
Salvation Army loading officer's baggage. I
ask if they go to my destination. Yes. They
start soon. I get on. See O Co. boys, 166th on
the road in camp between ........ and ........ .
Lieut. Otto gets on the lorry with an orderly.
He thinks I am one of the new boys, so he
questions me. On finding I am one of
Griffiths' men, the conversation is cut short.
He gets off at ........ . We go on and I am
deposited just outside of the ........ barracks.
Raining again. In the Post Office I am
disappointed to hear that there are no stamps. I
have a few and am determined not to go back
with the packages. I go among the men in the
barracks and locate a man who has enough for
my needs. I give him 2 Frs. for 27c worth.
Glad that it is done. Next go to the Christaux
to pay the 5 Frs. I owe. Proprietor is most
surprised. He does not remember that I owe
him money or who I am. Woman knows me.
Men in town are new men. Not the same as
when I was there Thursday. Go to drug store
for Lt.'s uniform. He does not know anything
about it. I go to the officer's club. There I hear
that the tailor has been there up to three
o'clock. Look for the interpreter that transacts
business for him at the French Mission. He is
not there, I find, after a long confab with
everybody in the place. He will return soon I
am told. I promise to come back in half an
hour. Ask to have him held till my return. Go
to photographer for Kirchner, find him closed.
I am getting hungry, but I have no money
except for a fr.'s worth of nuts. To buy
handkerchiefs for the boys next. Shop well.
Ask for the French Post Office. Must cross the
bridge and see our boys fishing for trout. After
a little difficulty, I find the PO and change
McCleary's money order, giving the girl two
nuts as a tip. She is tickled to death. Look at
my watch. See it is late. Hurry back to the
mission. Find interpreter is in and learn that
the Lt. has to wait until Thursday before he
can get his suit, unless he sends for it to
Nancy. Hate to go back with disappointing
news to Lt., so I try druggist again. Nothing
has been left for me. Start for home. Just miss
a ride to the next town and I must walk all the
way in the rain. The same beautiful scenery
not spoiled by the rain. To the YMCA to
inquire for something for Farrell. Look for the
old lady cobbler who has Griffiths' shoes. It
seems he had given me the wrong address.
Much fun trying to explain to the good folks
what I want. Decide to ask soldiers. One of the
boys knows where an old lady, who cobbles,
lives. It is at other end of town. I go there,
because it is on my way home. Ask Barney
whom I meet. He also knows the cobbleress.
At an ambulance Co.'s kitchen across the road
from the shoemakers, I ask for some bread to
take the edge off my hunger. It is cut for me,
while I bargain with the woman (the
244cobbleress). She wants 13 Frs. for a poor job.
She gives me change, while I listen for a
motor truck to come along. I hear one just in
time. I run across the road to get my bread and
signal to the driver to slow down. He pays no
heed to me. I run, but cannot catch his truck.
Go back to the kitchen to swear and wait for
another conveyance. I refuse to walk. I am too
tired. Presently a prairie wagon comes along. I
get a lift as far as the village. It rains and I
loan the driver of the lumber my slicker. On
the road I pass the new boys, on the street,
some hiking, and some in camp at Mess. Walk
into ........ with some of the new fellows. They
have come directly from ........ without any
previous training with the British. Their packs
are three times the size of ours, but in spite of
the weather and the weight of the packs, they
utter not a complaint. A fine big lot of fellows,
N.G's. In ........ I am greeted by the boys again.
Some of them have not seen me since my
return from the lines and accord me the same
reception as everyone else has. I burst in on
the cooks and demand something to eat.
Sugarman gives me hot coffee and bread with
jam. Welcome warmth in the coffee. Stay
there and talk until it is very dark. No
possibility of getting back to the billets in time
to come within the time allowed me by my
pass. That does not bother me. It is dark as
pitch in the woods, I know. I look at my pistol.
It is not even loaded. I hate the damned thing
anyhow, so I will not bother to load now. Take
the open road outside the wood as long as I
can. Pass a Frenchman, a ghost out of the
darkness. We greet each other to make sure we
are friends. A barrage going on from our lines
at my left. Think I am out of luck that tonight
should be chosen for a fight, after so many
nights of quiet. I am frightened by bushes,
which stand along like sentinels. Stride into
the woods. Inky black. I laugh and am amused
at thought of what my Leah would say if she
could see me now. For her approval, I will go
through the darkness of the woods to my
quarters. An almost hopeless and a somewhat
dangerous job ahead of me. In I go
floundering in mud. The boots hamper my
movement. I can see eight dim figures
crossing my path. It is the relief coming in. I
am glad to meet up with them. I stay with
them. At the first crossroad, we meet another
platoon crossing our road. We stop. I insist I
am right. Ask for an officer. None present. We
go on. I am finding my way by my sense of
direction. Go on until the column ahead stops.
Cannot see a soul. They whistle to keep in
touch with each other. A strange meeting with
Kelly in the darkness. I help guide a company
of engineers. Run into a man every step I take.
At a crossroad I go right up hill, see lights.
Find railroad track. Pat myself on the back for
achievement. Follow track, making noise to
attract attention of guard. I am passed. Meet
Paul and lead him to our billet. Boys glad to
see me. Wet. It is raining again. After I have
told my story, I go to bed. Scratch all night. I
do not sleep well. Tallon bothers me a lot.
New men are greeted with the sound of action.
Guns in the woods close to them must give
them an exaggerated impression of the activity
in these parts. M Guns, bombing etc. I pity
them, too, for the task that confronts them.
Pitching tents in the dark and rain.