Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 13 July 1918.

Nationality: Australian

Text:



Sat. Jul. 13, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
Up at 7:00. It has rained hard during the night.
Men are just returning from a special patrol. It
has the usual disastrous results. The party had
been challenged from an outpost in which
were men who were probably not aware that
the party might be expected to return at that
point. There was a slight misunderstanding.
The patrol quickened its movement, a
Frenchman in the party dropped a bomb which
he had ready decapped for instant use. He was
killed, one man mortally wounded, dying
during the day, and 4 of Co. K boys are
injured more or less severely. I am feeling
considerably better as far as my stomach is
concerned. I have rice and bacon, bread and
coffee for breakfast without any after distress.
Do not think it necessary to report to the work
squad since I have officially reported sick. But
I need a bandage for binding my foot which
still shows a rash. Go to the infirmary for
some, coming back to quarters to find
everybody asleep. Absolute and ideal quiet
reigns, making a fine opportunity to write. I
take advantage of it at once. Two big planes
are over the lines, cutting capers for Fritz.
They draw fire every time they circle over his
218territory and as long as they remain within
range. They are evidently taking photographs
and scouting. Flying low enough to be seen
and heard from the window where I sit.
Admire their daring. Machine guns also open
up on them. One of the new boys comes in to
look at them from the window through
glasses. He reports their movements to me,
while I write. Some shells from 75s are sent
under their direction. Write until noon time.
Men on awakening, again begin to talk about
the accident which occurred during the night.
One of them has helped bring them in and tells
how fearful a sight the wounded men are.
Dinner. Beef stew with green peas, bread,
coffee. Feel well. Take a nap of a half hour.
Sgt. Stewart comes in to inquire if I know the
location of a post, outside of which is a timed
iron pig or minniewafer, which has not been
exploded. Engineers are here for the purpose
of detonating it. They are taken out by Wager
and everybody is warned to keep under cover
and told when they might expect to hear the
explosion. I have hit upon the idea of writing a
story, based upon yesterday's experiences, to
Leah, but so as not to frighten her I will not
tell her when it happened. I look for a place
outside in the sun to sit while I write. It is
windy wherever I locate. While perched for a
few minutes on a wall next to our chateau, a
loud explosion coming from a very nearby
point, almost jolts me from my position. I get
down and cross the street to tell the men it is
advisable to seek shelter in the dugout. I think
some very heavy shelling is about to begin,
very close at hand. They remind me of the
missing wafer the engineers had been sent out
to explode, which I had completely forgotten
about, so I return to my perch until I find it
inconvenient to write in the wind. Go upstairs.
After a rather slow beginning, I gather
momentum and by supper time I have written
considerably. Shelling from our guns
intermittently. A Boche plane is brought
down. It is seen to tumble towards earth by the
men in the kitchen. I envy them. The fall of an
aeroplane is the only sight I an anxious to
witness. From accounts it is brought down by
machine gun fire by the 307 boys. Supper. I do
not take meat. Have potatoes, peas, bread,
coffee. A little distress in a few hours. I am
too busily engaged writing to feel annoyed.
The men are playing pinochle and disturb me
for a while. Write until candlelight. Something
is doing which has not yet been told us about.
Men were to go out on patrol, but it was called
off. About 10 o'clock, without any warning,
Lt. issues orders that gas masks are to be worn
at the alert position and, that as soon as it
becomes necessary to move into the dugout,
rifles and ammunition are also to be taken. We
wonder what it is all about. There are no signs
of an attack. Only activity is an occasional
spurt of machine gun fire and the steady
sending of shells from our guns at about ten
minute intervals. There is much discussion and
suspense and presently resume writing with
my coat and mask on. Some of the boys have
had to dress to comply with the Lt.'s order.
They had remarked, one man in particular, that
it looks like the night will be quiet and had
removed all their clothes. It begins to rain.
That ends the gas scare. It rains heavily for a
few hours. The men go back to bed. I resume
writing, remaining awake, alone in the room.
At 11:00, Sgt. Stewart comes in to suggest that
I put the lights out. It is shining through the
window and can be seen from the street. I
comply with his wish at once. Put out the
light, open the window and lie down to sleep.
My mind still insists on writing to Leah. It
keeps on working and working, so that I
cannot sleep. Had I a pen in my hand, I would
have had written at least 3000 words, before
the machinery stops. Milne, who has been sick
all day with an illness similar to mine, is taken
seriously ill and vomits. That effectually
prevents me from shutting my eyes. He must
219go on guard in a half hour or so. It will soon
be light, so I lie awake on my back waiting for
daylight, when I will get up to continue
writing. Milne goes on guard. I get up and
dress fully. Go downstairs for a few minutes to
get the air and keep the guard company. I have
a dull pain in my back and kidney from
constipation. My bowels have not moved
today. I exercise thinking it will bring them
back to normal. Decide there is something
radically wrong with me, for since the
beginning of the week, I have had diarrhea and
now I am constipated. I will see the doctor at
my earliest opportunity. I have gone
downstairs without a blouse and it begins to
feel chilly. I am on my way upstairs when I
meet Sgt. Stewart. I have a question to ask
him, and I would like to talk to him in general.
He impresses me as a very fine fellow. We
talk for more than fifteen minutes and as I
look at him, I am impressed with his fine
physique and exquisitely cut features. I
confess that I admire him. We go upstairs
together. Enter my room, intending to begin
anew at my writing. Get my paper, fuss
around a little with it. Read what I have
already written, so that I can get back into the
swing of it. Milne comes in, staggering from
weakness, gasping for breath, He is in great
pain from acute indigestion. I tell him to lie
down, loosen his clothes to permit him
freedom and suggest that he swallow a
camphor and opium pill, which are handy on
the table. They were prescribed by doctor. He
feels better after taking one. I put back my
paper, intending to lie down to be ready in
case Milne needs me. He is in bad shape and I
fear we will have to get a doctor for him, but I
fall asleep and Milne does too. Sgt.
Williamson of this detachment receives his
commission. Other men in the regiment, also
promoted.