Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 2 March 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Saturday Mar. 2, 1918
Weather: mild, clear Health: good
Up at 5:30. A lot of work to be done policing barracks. Reveille. Breakfast, French toast, butter, cornflakes, coffee. Lose my toast. Do without it. Prepare for inspection. All equipment spread out. The usual difference in
layout. No standard arrangement as yet. Lieut. Cook tries to help new men. Inspection is on time as announced. Everything OK. Inspection of Company outside. Put away equipment and take another turn at rifle and shoes. Company formed. Inspection. Lieut. Cook finds fault with my layout. Must clean and report to him. Capt. makes announcement after inspection which has been expected for some time. Every man will be given a pass to go home during week. But overstays and French leaves will not be tolerated. Tells us that we go overseas very soon. In my opinion he intends to make impressive little speech but emotion prevents him from doing so and he makes just a plain statement of facts as they are. Work and formation for the day ended. Go to bunk and spend an hour reading. Take a bath. Pack my grip. Dinner, pork and beans, coffee. Read until 1:30. Dress for inspection, 2:00. Go for 3:00 train. Sit with Hussey and Brown. A very quick trip into town during which I talk too much or rather too intimately about my experiences with local Board. Get home about 6:30. Everybody delighted to see me. Charlotte Goodman there. Leah has many good things for my birthday presents. A wonderful picture which she posed for Thursday. Handkerchiefs. Cigars from Willie, candy from Lottie. Stay until 9:00. Do not ell Mama it may be last time I will see her. Walk with Leah to see Willie at his work. He runs an elevator in bachelor apartments. Leah is taken ill in street. I am worried. Recovers when we get indoors and she can sit down to rest. Dave, who works next door, comes in to see us. I am told of sad death of Morris Berger’s sister. Affected by news. Start for home. Keep Leah’s thoughts away from partings and such things. Both of us read on boat. She discovers my news and is saddened at thought I am trying to hide something from her. Home a pleasant sight. A box of cigars from Rachel awaiting me. Have a cup of tea. Leah again feels faint. I help her. We go to bed. I was afraid that she would expect me to tell her everything I know and talk to her as usual. Relieved to have her ask to say prayers and go to sleep. I consent, though I am by no means tired. I am debating with myself what is best course to follow. Tomorrow, being my birthday, I hate to tell her bad news and spoil a day that should be spent in rejoicing. I fall asleep and sleep well.
