Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 27 January 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Sunday Jan. 27, 1918
Weather: cold, snowing Health: good
Up at 6:45. No Reveille or check. Breakfast, orange, toast, butter, oatmeal. Clean gun, bunk. Read. Watch crap game. Leah is due between 11:30 and 1. Formation in Mess Hall is called for at 10:30. Manual, loadings and firings, physical exercises, skirmishes all well executed. I draw attention to myself only two or three times, but Sgt. Curley insists on calling me for other boys’ errors. We work until 12. I immediately hurry to station to find Leah. Not there. I meet Graumy. To Hostess House to look for her. I have her paged. Train load in. Second section of train comes in. Third section coming just as I start back for barracks. I sense that Leah is on the incoming train but I must pull myself away to report back to barracks at 1:30. Guard tells me two girls were looking for me. Think it is Leah and Rebekah. Sorry I missed them. Sam and his mother and sweetheart in Mess Hall eating. They tell my Leah was not there at station. Then Flynn tells me he was joking. Get to work at same thing as in the morning. I ask Sam to go to Hostess House to ask for Leah. Worked until 3:15, just before which Sam brings Leah. Kiss her three times. She has been crying. She has been two hours in Hostess House. Rest period between manual and physical exercises. I am pleased to perform while Leah is looking. She hides so that I won’t get flustered at the sight of her. Mess Hall cleared and tables put back. Leah has packages for me and Ledger with copies of jobs. She is not in good spirits. Go over affairs. Walukinsky makes up some sandwiches and we go to Hostess House for supper, buying pies, ice cream, coffee, and tea. Sam’s party, Leah and I go to YMCA to hear concert. I must report to Lieut. Cook at 7, so I leave Leah with Sam. Promise to be back soon. Find I am to be on guard. Attend lecture. Cannot get away until 8. Suggest to Lieut. Cook that I be relieved of guard duty without result. Run to Leah. Surprised to find her gone. Disappointed I run back to barracks to see if she was there looking for me. Just as I come to the door she steps out. Crying. I take her to station and leave her with a sense of loss and of having spent an unsatisfactory day. Thompson is taking my post for me. I go on at 9. I am hungry so I ask Sam for an apple. Take two bites when officer of the day comes along. Mouth half full of apple. He asks me general orders. All of them. Watching my mouth. I fooled him completely in the end. He did not see apple on top of banister at his right. To bed at 10. Say a big prayer for Leah. On guard again at 1:00. Sleep broken. Day broken. Sorry that Leah had such an unhappy visit. Most of the time she cried though she tried bravely not to.
