Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 9 June 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 


Sun. Jun. 9, 1918
Weather: Fine, Warm
Health: Good
Hike .... Kilometres to .........
Up at 5:30, feeling much refreshed. Feet in
good condition. Breakfast. Pork and beans,
bread, cocoa, jam. Beans are hard when mess
call is blown. We wait for them to be cooked.
Announced that we do not move this morning.
Transportation cannot be arranged for. Move
at 3 PM. Captain wishes men to stay in
vicinity of camp and rest up for a nine mile
hike, expected to be completed by 7 PM. We
will rest and have supper and entrain at 12 PM
for an unknown objective. Shave and police.
Begin to write and fall asleep with pen in my
hand, shortly. Sleep for more than an hour.
Write until mess call blows. Dinner. Stew,
hardtack, coffee. Order to strike tents
immediately after mess. Roll pack. Blouses
will be worn. It is quite cool. Somewhat
cloudy sky. I am decidedly worried at prospect
of hiking nine miles. To ease my feet, I think
it well to bathe them before I leave, change to
my old hiking shoes and see that I have a pair
of good heavy socks on. Strike tent and roll
pack, assisted by Rubin. At this juncture
Company E is everlastingly disgraced by
clique of drinking Irishmen. The knowledge
that a long hike was proposed should have
kept them from drink for their own comfort, if
nothing else. I look up from my work to see
Devlin, Hackett and Gillece in a brawl. Gillece
drunk as a pig. Hackett and many others too.
Hackett strikes Gillece a blow on the mouth
which draws blood. Devlin, with probably the
best of intentions tries to make peace. Gillece
will not listen and to make matters worse
insults Devlin who strikes him over eye.
Gillece badly cut over eye, blood all over face.
An Italian lad angered by Devlin's dastardly
deed makes for him with a mattox and a general fight ensues which must be stopped by
officer. Rumor spread in battalion that all of
Co. E. is drunk. Almost true as a matter of
fact. Gillece patched up at infirmary.
Company formed and starts promptly on time.
Walk 45 minutes at a quick pace without a
trace of foot discomfort. Everybody stands up
well. Even the drunken ones. Gillece a great
surprise. Villages passed poor in the extreme.
Beautiful country. Up hill and down. See a
young colt for the first time. Wonderful poppy
fields. Cultivated hillsides. Wheat and rye all
around us. Hike 50 minutes and rest for 10.
March completed in 3 and a quarter hours,
passing through ........, a fine town, with
asphalt pavement on main street and two or
three large chateaus besides a railroad station
and factories. Excellent little shops of every
kind. Boys march through in fine shape but
hint they would like to fall out to permit them
to see town sights. English quartered there.
Fresh and pleased at the termination of hike,
we rest in a boggy field, having supper.
Cheese, bread, jam, coffee. Seconds, in which
I draw a quarter loaf of bread, pound of cheese
and some jam. Non-coms only permitted to
visit town to make purchases. Nothing can be
bought except liquor. E Co. makes a record
purchase. A little rain shower. I get out to take
a look around town. Evidences of a wealthy
town. Chateaus and shops, railroad station,
River ........ and canal bridged by what looks to
be American engineers‘ work. A
disappointment as to size of river (it is only 50
feet wide) but of exceeding beauty, with trees
lining both sides. Details out to take care of
rations for trip. Assembled at 8, many
absentees. A number of men must be carried
to station where we lie in dusty road on our
packs until 1 AM. A larger supply of liquor
obtained. I sit for 2 hours chatting with 1st
Sgt. Haley. He, too, is disgusted with conduct
of men. I find he once was in paper business.
Train pulls in at 12. Wagons and cookers
loaded on flat cars, horses and rations. 25 men
to a car. I am unfortunate in getting into one
which is full of horse dung at both ends,
almost a foot deep at walls, soft, wet, foul-
smelling stuff. Never in my life so disgusted.
We search for candles and get to work
immediately shoveling it out. What an awful
job and how little I think of the men who
permit such conditions to prevail. We clean up
fairly well and steal a dozen large planks to
lay over wet floor, from a private yard near
station. Think we are justified in doing so.
Rations drawn for entire trip. They are placed
in corner. Men flop wherever they can find
room. It is cold and chill. They must unroll
packs to get blankets. Done in harness. I have
only a little space to sit in corner on a pack
and a sheaf of marsh grass which I picked to
use as bedding. My eyes shut, but I awake in
15 minutes and thereafter cannot sleep.
Getting accustomed to foul smell. After 2
hours of excitement in station loading
transport we put out at 3. Day is breaking.
Ride along course of river. Large towns
passed. Architecture becoming more
pretentious. Stand up looking through grating
until 6. Eat a jam sandwich. Sit down and fall
asleep. Have not seen any aircraft nor heard a
gun all day. What a shame that such beautiful
country, as we are passing through, should be
devastated by war. Realize that La Belle
France is not a misnomer in the few hours I
spent looking through the grating. Men in car
a pitiful sight to behold. Uncomfortable,
restless, cold. Horses and cattle are better
housed than we are and yet we die for glory on
the battle field.