Author: Thomas James Richards.
Date: 31st October 1914.
Nationality: Australian.

Oct 31st Saturday November 1st Our brass band seems to be improving fast, the evenings programm being highly appreciate I bought 8 apples for 1/- yesterday this is the first fruit I've had from Sydney. I paid 1/- for a tin of 
Toffee obtainable in Sydney for 6d. Sunlight Soap cost 1/6 per packet or 6d a bar, which in 3½d on shore. The dinner to-day was very sadly complained of. Soup as thin as water & salty. Corn-beef as tough & hard as possible The meals have failed badly from time to time whether it is meaness or bad galley work tis difficult to say. The xxxxx venereal patients are still increasing in number some 40 now. My hair was cut off to the scalp to-day with clippers operated by Bob Miller I cleaned his off also. We are now like most other fellows round about.  now  It feels very strange but will most likely do my hair a lot of good as it is going back off the forehead & also getting gray. My age, however, is troubling me considerably of late I am too old both in years and in mind to be travelling with a crowd of fellows like these. I washed my dungerees and other cloths to-day it was very hard and tiring work, I will never insist upon my wife doing such fearful work if it can possibly be avoided. I often wonder how my poor mother lived through washing after five boys in North Queensland and keep us all dressed in white cloths too. We were, I regret to say not the most considerate of boys either. The censor is getting very particular about our correspondence during the last few days. First we were notified that letters, & packets  must be left unsealed, later only post cards and urgent wires would be received, now we get printed cards with sentences on and you have to cross out, leaving nothing to the effect "I am quite well and hope you are to same. Damn nonsense, we all seem to think I played solo whist last night and liked it. A card to W.L.B. in which I told her to "stick" and promised to write a little diary for her. I kind of think I am getting a bit sentimental these times But it would be hard for me in this coarse company not to have some higher thoughts to elevate me above the mass. A concert to-night. Left Albany.