
Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 6 May 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 

Mon, May 6, 1918
Weather: Raining, Mild
Health: Good
Up at 6:00. Reveille. Go out for breakfast.
Intercepted by Lieut., who tells me I am
wanted at Battalion Hdqrs. to report at 6:30 to
Sgt. Major. Probably wanted to work on
payrolls. Get breakfast. Oatmeal, bacon,
bread, coffee. Go back for slicker and go up to
Battalion Hdqrs. Wanted for figuring payrolls.
Must report to Division Hdqrs. Necessary to
get my rations first. Back to billet for a towel
to wrap two sandwiches in. Start for Hdqrs.
with Fox, F Co. man detailed to work with me.
After 10 minutes on the road, he calls me
Irving or Greenie. Don't know whether to take
offense at his forwardness or overlook it.
Directions given us for finding Disbursement
Officer rather vague. To make matters worse,
we lose way. Go much further up road than we
should. It has cleared and become very hot.
Sun shining strongly. Retrace our footsteps.
Ask Tommy to direct us. Eventually find right
road. Hdqrs. a fine mansion, beautiful
grounds, old trees. Officers of all grades.
Necessary to salute all the time we are on
road. Find Capt., a small fat man of my faith,
thick accent, still retains phlegmatic air of
merchant. Men from other Battalions already
at work, being instructed in method of figuring
payroll, partly on basis of old pay, partly on
basis of new. A big job ahead of us. We
submit our payroll, which is not found correct
in form. Do not wish to take responsibility of
making corrections, suggest that corrections
be noted and I will return to Co. Clerk to make
corrections in compliance with form. Go back,
Fox at my heels. Hungry enough to be tempted
to eat a sandwich. I turn into a field, sit at the
foot of a tree and watch a squad working a
field radio a few yards away. Well-rested,
walk back leisurely. Consult with clerk about
changes. Help him make same. Takes until 11:30. Decide it is best to remain until after
mess. Privileged to be served first. Beef stew,
bread, coffee. Pick up papers, go in search of
Fox. Meet him on road. Walk slowly to
destination. More men are there completely
taking up available working space. It is only a
small hut with one table. Must wait until 2
men finish and go away. Do as much
preliminary work as possible while waiting.
Get started properly at 3:30. Righted in all
details by 4:3O. Decide to go back for mess.
Report to Sgt. Major at Batt. Hdqrs. Asks us to
come back at 8:00 tomorrow morning. Too
busy to go into matters with us. Major holding
an important conference. He came back from
observations at front this morning and is back
in harness again, a hard worker. Dispose of
remaining sandwich on way back. Mess is
bully beef, bread, coffee, jam. Back to billets.
Sit under a tree far back in field to write.
Disturbed by mosquitoes. Write until 8:00.
Rest for an hour before it grows dark. Answer
a lot of questions, which are put to me by boys
who are anxious to be paid. Make bed. Turn
in. Sleep for a few hours. Must go outside for
a minute. The door of the barn is closed, in
darkness. I cannot find my way to door. Step
on man's feet. Frighten him. Frighten myself.
Change direction, guiding myself by hole in
the wall through which a gleam of light shows.
Find I am walking on man‘s face. He catches
my feet, cries out. Remain where I am, for
safety's sake. Ask him for a match. He has one
handy. Lights a cigarette with it. I find my
way to door. Look out to a clouded sky. Can
see red flashes in distance as guns roar. Would
like to stay out, but being barefooted and cold,
I tuck under covers, again guided by light of
cigarette of man I had disturbed. I cannot sleep
for a long while after. I tremble with the
ground which reverberates with the shock of
the firing. I have a queer waking dream. I see
myself doing clerical work until I am
commended for efficiency, installing new
systems, being recommended for a
commission and so on. Slumber fitfully rest of
night. Not feeling well, a headache comes on
to add to my troubles. News of allied
successes comes to us, which I think is
deserved after such continuous bombardment.
Kept up all day long without a stop. Little air
activity noted. Tobacco issued for 4 day's
supply. Cigarette ration cut down to one pack.
