Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 23 April 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Tuesday April 23, 1918
Weather: Fair, Mild
Health: Good
Up at 5:00. Awake very cold. Boys who came
in late could not find their blankets. They
make a collection from men sleeping near at
hand, leaving each only the necessary one. I
have only one. An air raid is supposed to have
taken place during night but I heard nothing of
it. Wash and breakfast. Ham, jam, bread,
coffee. Issued three tickets. Make up packs
and company formed ready to move. Blankets
are turned in. Ground policed. It begins to
rain. Company moves off to railroad station.
Packs with added weight of steel helmet and
gas masks soon become a burden. The pace
which is set by the Captain too fast. Route
through the city, narrow streets, slippery
pavement. See damage to buildings caused by
air raids. A prosperous looking place with
many large factories from which a busy hum
is heard. and well-stocked shops, with the
exception of the butcher shops which look
depleted. No men are to be seen except in
uniform. Children going to school. Halt only
for passing trains. No rests. Walk was about
three miles. At station we hand in our meal
ticket at canteen and receive 2 sandwiches, 1
egg, 5 buns and a cup of good hot coffee,
which is our ration for the day. Wooden
boxcars holding from 36 to 40 men waiting for
us. They are filthy being littered with decaying
food, coal, wood, paper. Trains full of
wounded come in from the front, men on leave
and small caliber field pieces. Huge guns
mounted on railway trucks also, camouflaged
to resemble foliage. Fill canteens and chat
with Scots and English who go again to front.
A cheerful lot not inclined to brag about
anything they have done or the wounds they
have received. Sun comes out as we leave RR
yards. Noisy, jolting cars. A flat wheel directly
under me. Have a short nap. Put my rations in
steel helmet. Nothing to occupy our attention.
Scenery commonplace. Hundreds of coolies
working on railroads. Arrive at RR station in a
half hour or so. Detrain and get another cup of
hot coffee. Short rest and we start off hiking to
our billets. Have no idea of the distance to be
traveled. Adjutant issues order that we make
only 2 and a half miles an hour which arouses
my suspicion that it will be a long walk. Pass
English camp and base hospital, great salvage
yards and storehouses all in perfect order.
Coolies go about with mess cans slung from
their shoulders. Get a rest again for ten
minutes. Then go for 45. See farms of
Northern France. Long avenues of trained
trees. Only one residence of consequence
seen. Old lady pointing at my cartridge belt
shouts at me: "Germans finish". I do not know
whether that means I am to kill Germans or
they are to kill me. Meet Lt. Cook on the road.
He tells us we are going to a fine place. Men
are beginning to drop out of ranks under
strain. My left foot is blistered on sole and
pack hurts my back. I whistle and sing in an
effort to forget. Next rest we are quite hungry.
I am out of luck. I have no rations. Lt. Stevens
to whom I gave my tin hat to hold, while I
jumped off the train, did not know I had food
in it and spilled contents. Captain becoming
annoyed at showing of his men. Passing trucks
pick up stragglers. Go down a most wonderful
avenue, lined with tall trees on both side. They
are free of branches except for a tuft on top.
Plod on under difficulty. Meet up with Major who halts entire battalion until all stragglers
are picked up. We rest an hour during which I
lunch on bread and bully beef and manage to
procure a glass of buttermilk, freshly churned.
Learn from Tommy that we are only 35 miles
from front. Men who are billeted in a town we
have just passed tell us we have 10 minutes to
go. This proves to be 3 miles. Enter gates of a
French town admirably situated in a valley.
Officers push ahead, while in rest, to locate
quarters. We are marched all around the
village to house us all- 20 or more in each
barn. A beautiful place, but we are disgusted
at finding we must sleep in barns. Almost too
tired to go to mess. Field kitchen comes up too
late to cook anything but coffee. We get 1
bully beef sandwich besides. Field kitchen a
quarter mile away from our billets. Listen to a
conversation in French between Sgt. Fischer,
who is acting as interpreter for the Lts. and
Madame, who tells where we are and what has
happened, with the aid of a map. After mess, I
go into estaminet and drink a glass of porter,
first drink in four years. Excellent stuff. Boys
buying it all up. They get all the wine and
champagne they can hold. Some tipsy.
Atmosphere of place full of rustic romance.
Go to bed at 9:00, wondering if rats will
disturb us. Hear the roar of battle. From
sunset, guns boom incessantly in the distance,
star shells and rockets seen in sky. Aeroplanes.
Realize for first time how near we are to front.