Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 10 May 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Fri. May 10, 1918
Weather: Cloudy, Chill
Health: Good
Up at 6:00. Last on mess line for fried ham,
bread, oatmeal, coffee. Cold enough to
warrant wearing overcoat. Eat standing up,
moving about to keep warm. Corporal of
machine gun squad is in trouble. He is trying
to put certain parts together without success.
As I watch I fancy I see reason I call his
attention to defect, probable trouble. Assures
me appointment as machine gun man. Hash is
cooked. I will surely become a member of
suicide club. Back in quarters for a few
minutes. Make an effort to get on a change of
clothes, but damp chill weather makes me
change my mind. Instead, go to my duties at
Hdqrs. Just manage to avoid running into
Capt. on my way up. Major and adjutant
already at work. Something in the nature of a
manoeuver is expected. An air of excitement
prevails. Bend my back over task all morning,
my knees freezing, toes numb, uncomfortable
for want of a smoke, which I cannot indulge in
on account of presence of Major. The
important message from the Colonel arrives.
The Battalion will camp out for the night.
Brief but precise. A lot of work necessary to
get proper instructions to the 4 companies,
supply officers, medical detachment, etc.
Guard to be arranged. Rations and duties of
men who remain behind to be considered,
under which group I fall. Typewriter busy for
the rest of the forenoon. Go to mess. Look
wise. Think with a selfish, internal smile of
the hard joke to be played on men, but tell
nobody. I am not certain if the CO wants me
to go with company . Inquire of adjutant. Best
for me to stay. Get my rations. Back to work.
Everybody working feverishly on preparations
for spending the night in the open. Does not
let up until 3 when from an unofficial source
comes the news that Colonel has rescinded his
order of the morning. No reason stated. The
Major of course, will not strike camp until
confirmation is received from Colonel to stop
proceedings. Major a calm person. I admire
him. Go out to end the game. Major and
adjutant return after drill recall, buzzing about
a possible order to pack up during the night for
a hike and all of tomorrow afield. Orders
issued in black. Nobody must know. It is to be
a surprise. Ten minutes later every man in
camp knows about it. Men worried in the
extreme. Do not know whether to unroll
packs. It is cold. They need blankets. On other
hand if order does come to move out during
night, it will not be possible to roll packs in
the dark. Pester officers for information. Told
to unroll. Liaison men ordered to remain
packed, sleep in clothes, ready to turn out
instantly if needed. Work until 5:15. Late for
supper. Cheese, apple butter, bread, coffee.
Hungry with a vengeance. Cannot wheedle
anyone into giving me more food. Repeatedly
asked to give information of probable
movements of company. Keep a silent tongue
in my head. Drop only vaguest hints to men
about blankets. Write after mess. I have
received a letter from Lottie written the 8th,
telling me a lot about the little one. Wash
myself. Stroll to the village. Look into Major's
office for Tallon. Strange to say he is not busy.
Will he have the bottle of red wine I promised
him? Gladly. Best place, favorite place? None.
Corner opposite church. Order a bottle of red
wine, 4 francs, sit along the wall side by side
dissecting the National Army into classes,
good points, bad points. Non—coms weak point, personnel, spirit, morale also. Air our
individual grievances, our troubles before and
after enlisting. Good jobs, bad jobs. I am
interested in that. I want a job of my own,
danger no object. Immunity from constant
orders my objective. I want to work on my
own hook no matter how lowly job is. Drink
half a bottle. Part at nine. Shop closes. Guard
finishes my glass. Remain in conversation for
a few minutes in road. Tallon to office, I to
billets. Feeling warm, active-minded, steady
step. Bunkmate surprised when I light a
match. Ten minutes chaff. Fall into a doze.
Denarino, 3rd platoon liaison man just came
in. Has been given orders as above about
probable call. Wakes all of us, ordering men to
roll packs and get ready to fall out.
Questioned, he insists he has orders. About
ready and resigned to cruel fate when someone
worms from Italian the truth. He had been told
probably. He misunderstood to inform us of
probability. His explanation garbled, of no
value. At any rate, we know of probability.
Wakeful for an hour. An interesting hour with
my accelerated thoughts, Leah and baby
Cecilie, the burden of course. I have no
inkling of any major military move. No
bombardment heard. Only a few practice
shots, bombs, grenades, machine guns.
Bulletins report quiet on all fronts. Sleep
undisturbed entire night. Aircraft not in action
today in this vicinity. Warm and clear evening.
Promise of fair day tomorrow. Haight looks
for allotment blanks. Cannot find any. Poke.
Exasperating surly cuss.