Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 20 May 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 



Mon. May 20, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
Cecilie's pictures come to me.
Up at 6:00. Breakfast. Bacon, very salty,
which is responsible for an all day thirst,
bread, coffee. Air blankets, wash. Wait to be
called by scouting party at 7:30. Lts. bring
with them a great many instruments in which
are compasses of every make. Into the woods
where our open air class meets. Group
ourselves around instructors. Shown methods
of using and manner of using different kinds
of compasses. Use of map making instruments
explained. Shown how to draw maps for
military purposes as distinguished from
ordinary ones. Given a lesson in map reading,
finding direction and given points by compass,
both in day and night. Use of maps for
direction. Lt. has very poor material to work
with. Bark of a large tree is our blackboard, no
resting board or thumbtacks for drawings and
sketches. Scaling of maps, distances obtained
by foot pacing. Each man's pace differs, we
must have each member's pace measured for
this purpose. Lt. goes back to town for a tape.
Meanwhile we take readings with pneumatic
compass. Returns with tape. Go to main road,
pace off 400 yds. Length of stride is 67 and
one half inches. Captain and Colonel's adjutant come along to tell Lt. that he is wanted to meet
an officer at 1 o'clock, at a distant crossroad,
with two of his best scouts. I was hoping that I
would be one of two selected. Broadhead and
Sgt. Fisk asked to go. Disappointed. Left with
one instructor. We take a compass reading for
accuracy of two points in different directions.
Then make a map of road we are on. Simple.
Back for mess. Told we will be prepared to go
out tonight at 9 for patrol work, for which we
must all secure compasses, from our
respective supply Sgts. Promised early
dismissal in afternoon. Write on return to
billets. Mess. Beef stew, hardtack, coffee.
Take an hour's nap in a shady spot in field.
Out at 1:30. Lt. takes us to field across the
road from where we will work tonight to
permit us to study the ground. Trial of 4 men
patrolling so we can get an idea of nature of
work. Dismissed after a half hour's rest while
we ask questions. To report at 9:00 with full
equipment. Ask supply Sgt. for compass. Mail
is in. Corp. Haight finds 6 letters for me. I
open first one on road. Lie in field to read
remainder. In the second I find pictures of
Cecelia, taken in three positions. Leah in bed,
looking fine God bless her, holding baby,
Mama in rocker with baby and baby alone.
First is best. Cecelia's beauty shows to best
advantage. I am very happy. Contented to see
baby as though I had seen her in the flesh. All
Leah's letters contain good news, Thank God.
I kiss baby, Leah, Mama, innumerable times.
At once write a letter to Leah. While I write a
bird lights on tree above me and quite plainly
says, "Daddy, Daddy, Daddy". I tell Leah
about it. Glad I am alone. Company returns.
Retreat without me. An inspection of
equipment and feet without me. Lt. excuses
me. Move to position in hot sun out of way.
Mess. Bread, jam, coffee. I get an early
supper, before men. Finish letter. Write until
9:10. Sgt. brings me a compass. I show
Cecelia's picture to those worthy of looking at
her. Formation at 9:19. Brilliant moon. I
wonder how a scout can prevent being seen on
such a night. When I arrive, Lts. are in
estaminet bargaining with Madam for eggs
and bread for sandwiches when we return. She
has bread but not enough eggs. Get enough
from neighbor to satisfy our needs. We
explain we want sandwiches. I am called upon
to interpret. Laughed at. A poor French
student. Finally I understand lady has no fire
to fry with. Try neighbor, another and another,
but no one can accommodate us. Decide to
cache supplies and pick up on our return trip.
At field, divided into two parties. Object, learn
what is the condition of enemy‘s wire, enemy
patrols if any, etc. Conway, Himpler, Black go
out. Another party around hedge. Three men
on guard, observing, listening. I am second
relief on latter. Patrol goes out in bright
moonlight. An occasional flare far distant.
They creep. After a few minutes I lose sight of
them, after which I cannot see a soul in the No
Man’s Land, to my great surprise. Too much
creaking and noisemaking equipment on us. I
relieve guard. Look through glasses until my
eyes are sore, but still have located no one.
Occasionally imagine I have found them but I
see only shadows. No sound. Lt. and next
relief pass same as I. Exercise should be over
at 11:30. It is later and no one returns. We go
to look for them. A hard job finding them.
When two parties assemble to compare notes,
we find that no man saw enemy except on one
occasion. A most interesting night's work. A
hard one for men who have been patrolling.
Caked with mud and wet through from dew.
An occasional airplane overhead. Once think
we hear a bomb explode. See a bright pilot
light for planes. Very little artillery action at
front. See a few flashes and rockets. Three of
our scout party lost. Wait until they are found.
In the interval we take a smoke and are taught
how to locate the north star. March back to
village, picking up bread and eggs on wayside before I get to my billet. Kiss baby and
undress. Get into bed without disturbing
anyone, at 12:30. Get a good and well-
deserved night's rest. Plan to find forget-me-
nots to enclose in letter to Leah.