Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 7 August 1918.

Wed. Aug. 7, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
Hike 14 Kilometers to ........
Up at 4:30 as day is breaking, after having
had very little sleep. I am tired, which is to be
expected. Wash and begin to roll my pack.
Mess call at Co. F kitchen is the signal for us
to go down. E does not leave with us and does
not breakfast until 6:30, so we are told to eat
with F. In spite of our orders, as usual, it is
difficult to get a meal out of them. There is a
long line, which we do not care to take the end
of, so we lie and swear that we leave at 5:30,
ahead of the battalion which gains for us
permission to squeeze in at the head of the
line, after much argument. Breakfast. Rice,
stewed apricots, bread, coffee. Back to
quarters, eat there, after which I roll my pack
and by 6:30 I am ready. There are many
regrets this morning. The men all denounce
themselves for fools, because of their debauch
last night. The thing that hurts most is that
they always begin a long hot hike feeling bad
physically, big heads and thirsts. My regret is
that I am without money and must begin a
long journey, perhaps, without a bit of
goodies. Ever since the first day of our travels,
I have been penniless. I think I have an hour
yet before we go, which I mean to spend in
writing. That is interrupted by Lt. Griffiths,
who comes with an order to police up. We all
get busy. Into the garden next for a few plums.
Everybody ready, it is time to fall in. We leave
at 7:10 at the head of the column. It has rained
considerably in the night and the roads are
muddy and full of puddles. We fall out till the
battalion forms. Lt. Griffiths notices Doherty
without an overcoat on his pack, which begins
a cross examination, which discloses that no E
men have overcoats. Doherty makes excuses.
Lt. calm and collected as usual but hopping
mad at us. Looks like trouble for a time, but it
blows over. We go off up hill, which is the
rule all through the hike. Soon after we start,
we must take a 35% grade. One cannot get a
foothold in the mud. We slip and make poor
progress. Cloudy, but muggy on the woodland
path. Come out into the open, where a hilly
scene of remarkable beauty unfolds itself. We
walk along a road in the center of a dozen foot
hills all gold with ripe grain and green and red
with clover. Nestling villages and villages on
the heights. One large town, our destination,
seen from below looks quite near. Its nearness
deceives us. A wind, cooling and fresh blows
over the open, which makes it a little more
comfortable walking. Fall out after 50
minutes. Off again from the top of a hill, while
other companies are still below. Turn back to
look at the column of men bending their backs
in the effort to get to the summit of the incline.
Impressive in the extreme. Through ........
where there are some Americans quartered.
Into the woods, along an awful rutted road,
full of puddles and not a breath of breeze
stirring. Fall out for 10 minutes after walking
uphill for 50. We must go over the low
mountain range, into the valley where the
railroad runs. Fall out again and off for the last
lap of 4 kilos. Meet Vicker in the woods
266where the supply company tented in the rain
for the night. After 1 1/2 kilos walk we fall
out, stack arms and unsling equipment to wait
for the kitchens to come up and serve dinner. I
am very hungry. Lie with my back up in the
sun until my clothes dry out. Run down the
road to an orchard, where I manage to get a
couple of apples and some green plums to take
the edge off my hunger. M Co. 3rd Battalion
comes in. The Captain buys two kegs of beer
for his boys, an act of kindness which I have
not, as yet, seen equalled, not even by our
Captain. The boys appreciate it very much. F
Co. comes up and serves cold bacon, potatoes,
bread, Karo and coffee. A miserable meal. G
Co. in, so I decide to try their line. With the
aid of Wade, I get some rice and potato, stew,
bread and coffee. Back to where my
equipment is to take a nap on the grass until
the army moves to the station. Judging from
the size of the station, and loading detail that
goes to the station and from what Zucker tells
me, I have hopes that we may, perhaps, go out
of France. We hike to the station past an
English hospital, a Canadian unit, where there
are many men, mostly with injured limbs. Fall
out and wait to entrain. A wild rush to the
YMCA for crackers, chocolate and canned
foods. I grub a cracker here and there, but
borrow no money for myself. An English-
French field bakery across the road. Listen to
rumors of our probable destination from the
men who have been here from E for a week or
more aiding in the movement of troops. They
are of the opinion that we go to Italy. We are
packed in, 33 in a car, and ship two day's
rations. It is entirely too crowded for a two-
day trip where men must sleep. The car itself
is fairly clean. Conway, who has gone ahead
has swept the dung out and it is almost dry. Lt.
Cook is with us, full of bull, as usual, and
perhaps a bit of booze. Griffiths is still angry
with us, judging from the abrupt manner in
which he speaks to us. Restless to get under
way. The usual excitement and fuss. My maps
are out, waiting to pass the first town, to see
where we may be bound for. We go south. Try
to puzzle the puzzle out, but make no success.
Pass beautiful fields along a canal, where
Frenchmen are fishing and summering. The
women out to greet us as we pass. Children
beg for biscuits and in return give us some
plums. Lots of water, consequently many
factories, in some of which German and
Turkish prisoners are at work. Many boys and
young girls. Sizable towns. The map reading
grows more interesting. It begins to look like
Italy, especially when Lt. Hepburn tells us not
to touch the ration for to-night. They must last
for two days. Where can a two days' trip take
us? No one knows. I sit in the door and enjoy
the scenery which has the mountains for a
background. The boys sing a good deal and
cheer the girls. Supper is served at a 15 minute
stop. The same trouble in finding out who we
feed with. I persuade H Co. to give me hash
and coffee, which with biscuit makes a good
supper. We munch biscuit all the time. At
dusk we see some of our boys, engineers, who
are in this country seven months and are
permanently stationed here. They do not know
where we go. ........, a railroad center out of
which six lines run will decide our fate. 3 lines
go north and 3 lines go south. Best road in
France runs alongside the tracks. At ........, in
the dark, talk to MPs who are only in the
service since May and who were whisked out
of Camp at Spartansburg at once. From there,
a town of many barracks, where the lights are
lit at night, and which is, so far, unscathed by
war. We go up a steep mountain. The engine a
fine thing as it puffs hard to pull us up the
steep grade. The men go to sleep. Maloy and I
remain awake to wait for coffee to be served
between 11 and 12. Another reason is that
there is no room for us. It grows cold. We
cannot find an inch of space to lie down
comfortably. Maloy manages. I can find
267nothing better than the box of hard tack 2 x 3
ft. It cannot be done. I remain awake. Seized
with cramps. Luckily the train stops. I get the
name of the station and look at the map. We
are going to ........ without a doubt. That is all I
want to know. I get into a corner where Farrell
is. Wake everybody to make room for me,
which gives rise to much swearing. I manage
to make room and fall asleep out of sheer
fatigue. At 1, coffee and rum comes. This time
I drink it. Excellent. Helps keep me warm for
the night. Allays my cramps a bit.