Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 25 March 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 

Mon. Mar. 25, 1918
Weather: clear, mild Health: good
Up at 6:00. Reveille. Breakfast. Oatmeal, bacon, coffee. Make bed. I have four blankets as I had suspected. Jones short one. Complains of having been cold during night. I find out who made beds. It was Lukas. I thank him. Police platoon rooms. Outside for drill. Overcoats, though not needed. Corp. Callahan at range with a detail. I install myself as acting corporal. To drill grounds for an hour’s close order drill. Major about as usual when entire battalion drills. I do good work as corporal until Sgt. Kaplan spies me. He replaces me with Goldberg. I take #2 front rank. It seems like 4 hours before command to rest is given. Fall out for 15 minutes. Topic of discussion is will we get passes for Wednesday and Thursday. Taken further out in field for skirmish drill. New men taken out of ranks to be drilled by Corporals and company is reformed. This leaves us last squad in column. At each deployment we are forced to go about 500 yds. at double time. Takes about 10 minutes for lines to get straightened out and we are settled. Firing from prone position. Platoon leader translating signals from Captain. It is forward and rear and assemble until we get very tired. When order to fire is given we merely simulate firing. Too far away from Lt. for deception to be noticed. At it all morning with a rest of 15 minutes very hour. Back to quarters at 11:30. Nap and wake to find dinner is almost over. Steak and onions made to order for me, potatoes and coffee. Drill called before I am finished. Must leave best steak I have had in long time. To bayonet run. I am corporal. Go over entire course three times. First time, pretty well minded. Do better after I swear at disrespecters. Rest for 15 minutes. Hot as the devil. Lie on ground. More skirmish drill, until 2:45. This time we must work harder because platoon leader is behind us. Back to firebreak. Asked for volunteers for new signal class which is forming. I am on the job. Given a tryout by Lt. Cook. Sending too fast. Difficulty in reading because sender is reversed. Get along better as time for retreat nears. Retreat. Company formed in double line for convenience. It is too long in single line. Expect an announcement about Passover Holidays. Disappointed. Clean rifle. Write. Supper. Beef stew, coffee. Write to Leah, Mama, Miss Hogan thanking her for socks she gave me and Miss Austin for cake. A big job. To Post Office to mail letters and to K of C Hall to telephone Leah. She has good news for me. She has closed deal for sale of shop, if leave can be received. Has fifty dollar deposit on total. Net about $725. G. Fendler to be paid. Deal was made for cash. We are almost out of the woods. Hurts to hear that shop I worked so hard to build up had to be sold but I am happy that Leah is relieved of responsibility. Write until put out and return to quarters. Take a bath and to bed. Have a new way of folding blankets. Forget to perform any worship. Fall asleep from fatigue almost at once.
