Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 29 May 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:


Wed. May 29, 1918
Weather: Fair, Mild
Health: Good
Look for and find a fragment of bomb
in hole 200 yds. south of camp. A
jagged piece of steel, which means
instant death if struck by it.
Up at 6:00. Frost on our tent. Wash. Police.
Air blankets. A few shells dropped by enemy
at same points. He saves them for our
amusement at meal times. Breakfast. Bacon,
coffee, bread. Rest for an hour, in which I read
last letters from Leah over again. Looks for a
time as if we were not going out. This is
rapidly becoming a lazy man's haven. Raison,
....... and I will go for water. Our party goes
with Lt. We will meet up with them when
finished with detail. Another party is to finish
up work on observation post. Go about our
work very leisurely. Read bulletins of war
progress at divisional headquarters. It begins
to look like rain. Take in blankets and set out
to find Lt. and his class, carrying our slickers.
See him just as he moves on over trenches.
Leads us a merry dance around ditches and
wires until we catch up with him. They are
doing nothing in particular. Going over lines,
Examining wires for openings. Sets out for a
stone pile across the road, once a windmill
blown up by English for obstructing field of
fire. Take another look at F Company line.
Told to take especial note of it. See a party of
men looking at trench system through our
glasses. Try to locate our OP. I find it in a few
minutes. Head towards it to ascertain progress
of working party there. Through glasses we
take a look at officers in trench. They are all
US men. Wade takes my glasses and
recognizes about a dozen of them. Later they
come out to road going towards us. We find
that all of them but our Major are strangers. Go back to house. Nothing to do till mess, so I
take a nap. Kaiser adds a touch of spice to our
meal as he has done now for the last few days.
Stew, hard tack, coffee. I ask Lt. if we go for
bath. It depends on whether other battalion
scouts go. Sends me to inquire. Find no
arrangements to bathe have been made,
because we would be needed to escort
battalion to trenches when they arrive late
afternoon. Boys grumble. Prospects of much
needed bath and an afternoon's rest from work
are shattered. Take another nap until 2. A task
found for us. We go to trench on hill crest
south of camp to observe movements of Lt.
and two men with him in trench to the north,
about 300 yds. distant. I observe, Gillece
records. Observation difficult on account of
clouds from smoke bombs Englishmen have
thrown in pasture for practice. Scotsmen
rather, who have been at sham battle all day. A
small field of vision with glasses and a large
sector to observe make it difficult to spot
movement. We know something is going on
all the time but cannot locate or detect men. I
look for a half hour during which time I note
only one movement. Pass glasses to Gillece.
He does not do much better. In all when called
to assemble only 5 observations were taken.
One man only, who had a telescope noted
nearly all that went on. Lt. looks over reports.
Quite satisfied with our work. Tells us to
prepare for a night class to assemble at 8:30.
Purpose to get location of points in our trench
system by night. Write until supper time.
Mess. Cheese, bread, jam, coffee. I am
becoming tired of the sameness of that diet.
Take another nap. Third during day. Two
observation balloons up southwest. They are
the target for countless German shells. Our
planes over lines are having an interesting
time dodging shells and machine gun fire in
attempts to cross line. Spend an hour or more
observing action through glasses. Enemy still
trying for RR and road to north. Class
assembled. Lt. grows impatient waiting for
darkness to fall. It is chill. Suggests we take
our overcoats. He has his on. Rather than
disturb our bedpack, we do without. Wear
steel helmets, have cap underneath to keep my
head warm. I remembered last experience with
helmets when my head was cold. we all carry
sticks. Play tunes with them on helmet of
leading man as we go to the other side of
woods through path. On arrival it is too light
to send out parties. Wait 15 minutes at G.
Company‘s dugouts. Talk to Australians at
work thereon. Big action on ahead of us.
Shells whiz all around us and cause Lt. to
change plans. Had intended to send party out
to stone pile, but is afraid to let men stray too
far from him, so as to be near in case of
accident. I am asked to lead two men to F. Co.
by shortest route, I strike out in full
confidence, though I am not very familiar with
location, and reach objective without least
difficulty. Stay down in trench for warmth.
Look ahead over parapet. Flashes of red from
guns as far East and West as the eye can see.
Boom, boom, boom. Whiz, whiz, whiz until I
am sickened by the cruelty of it. How can men
inflict such misery and suffering on each
other. At every report from the larger guns, I
stand with bated breath waiting for the
explosion of the shell. I imagine the toll of
injury and death it takes. The cost of it. The
futility of it. The war will never be won on the
field of battle. Why not end it all and spare
men and women. Flares, signal lights, machine
guns. Almost all the machinery of war
exposed to our view. I fail to see grandeur or
glory in it. Airplanes over us traveling with
lights. Look like moving stars. There is an
example of greatness of man but it is being
degraded by use to which these machines are
put. Whistle for assembly blows at 10:15. Lt.
comes up. Parties come together, all but one.
We wait and scout for them. After 15 minutes
conclude that they have gone back to dugout. Make our way to it in silence intending to steal
upon them unawares. They are ignorant of our
approach. They are scolded for poor work. All
go back through path in woods, over wire and
trenches in darkness. Difficult to see man
ahead. Millions of stars, beautiful sight but no
moon to be seen. Chilled on arrival at camp. I
eat an onion for warmth. Searchlights and
guns play into the sky trying to find German
plane above us. I am afraid they will keep me
awake again tonight. A shell or bomb drops in
the woods behind us, so close that it makes me
hot all over. A few more play on road and then
I fall asleep for the first time, enjoying an
unbroken night's rest despite the din.