Author: Frederick Harold Tubb.

Date: Tuesday  22.06.1915.
Nationality: Australian.

Very hotRoutine work in the morning After lunch I went to Alexandria with Lt. [[McGuire?]] to play tennis The courts which are near the race course are splendid 
Every convenience, fine lavatories bathrooms showers, niggers to chase balls afternoon tea etc. We had some great games. There are about ten Courts all in good order. The surroundings  are fine, lovely gardens, & green turf racing track. I had dinner at [[Georgies?]] and returned to Camp at midnight. - Bulgaria seems like coming in - Italy seems to be doing well, Mackensen will make his promise of getting Lemburg good by accounts. Turkey is much more formidable than was imagined, paper states that they have 1,250 000 magazine rifles etc. Rumour states that a move is shortly to take place - Our new G.O.C. Gen Legg is credited with saying that the wants all Australian troops removed from Egypt - Venice & Cyprus are spoken of as places where we may go to(!) It is so hot in Cairo, Heliopolis etc that report states that broken bones won't knit, or wounds heal. A new Camp Commandant is coming here, an English Officer, seems strange? Received letters from home to May 18 last night - Glad to hear of all doings
at home - pleased to hear of the grand rain in May. Hope the U&D. strike it rich! Am continually wondering when I will get my orders to move to the peninsula. Things are very quiet here & F & I would like to get a move on!  L/ Col Richardson Warwickshire Yeomanry is taking over Camp Commandant tomorrow since Major Holdsworth who is going back to his Coy. Got another letter from home telling of offer for Post Office house I hope Father won't sell it - I want it when I return(!) Spent the evening down at HQrs mess Major Holdsworth read us the latest news from the front (official) explaining the object of & giving details of attacking the Dardanelles There were 34,000 Turks & 100 guns on the peninsula opposing us the day we landed & 4 5 000 on the Asiatic side, they were [[Nippon?]] (regular troops) they were quickly reinforced by others from Constantinople  bringing them up to 150,000. Official report states that at a low estimate 5 5,000 casualties have occurred amongst them to 15th June. They have  plenty of ammunition, but things are happening in Constantinople that give the idea that we are have done splendidly and are still doing so - Bayley a man correspondent who has been all through the war areas lately returned to day. He says that at Berlin they are turning up their parks, and planting potatoes He attended a "Mid summer's nights dream in Berlin about 24 days ago - At Constantinople the streets are almost deserted  all the loafers & others of leisure have disappeared. Instructions re behaviour on enemy showing the white flag are promulgated cautioning our men to be very careful etc. A cable is published congratulating us from the High Commissioner London & a reply from Gen Birdwood. Evidently things are progressing favorably for our side, but time will show and it will take a long time yet I'm thinking before we win the day. Rumour states that Roumania is joining with us. If this turns out to be correct it will be Goodbye Turk before long! The wind has shifted   It is off the sea
now making it cooler, & possible for us to get a decent sleep - When the wind blows off the sea it is moist and leaves makes everything sticky. Clothes & hands feel as if they had come in contact with honey or sugar. 