Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 12 March 1918.
Location: At Home In Camp.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 

Tue. Mar. 12, 1918
Weather: fair, mild Health: good
At home
Up at 7:00. Breakfast with Leah. Make 8:30 boat for city. In shop shortly after nine. Take a look about on unfamiliar scenes. Look things over and go to see Henry Adams about my affairs. See Hugo, and Asher who invites me to lunch. Henry executes a bill of sale, which I make out in favor of Leah. Discuss ways and means of disposing of plant. He does not favor leasing it. Considers outright sale or storage best. Stay to talk about war and how it has affected me. Back to shop to keep appointment with Willets. He favors sale or storage, but does not evince any great amount of interest in my trouble. I call up Lou. Take Leah to lunch at Zeitlin’s, where I meet boys. Nuck there. Finishes an interview quickly after he leaves and comes back to talk with me. He makes generous offer to supply me with tobacco when I go “over there.” Lemitz and Sam dine with us, too. Go to see Mr. Cannon. He will approve of anything I do. Go to bank to cash check. Tellers glad to see me. All tell me how anxious they are to fight also. They are all old men. At my wits end as to what course to follow. I must do my best for Leah. Sit down with paper and pencil and figure what will accrue to her from each of four methods of disposing of business, auction, sale, lease, storage. Dismiss auction and storage. Best suited to my needs either lease or sale outright. Call up Lasker to close insurance and transfer fire policy. He will call later. Go downstairs to discuss it with Breslau. They have no money, I discover, but would very much like to secure my shop. They are very undecided. Have best of intentions but handicapped by lack of funds. French calls. Lasker calls. Etta to see us. She is a most welcome visitor. Jordan also to see me. Business for day has been good. There is a big lot of end board stock to cut for Willets’ job. I get to work on it. Find it most interesting. Unaccustomed to it. I do my best for half an hour. Leave enough for men to start work on in morning. Leah packs up books, orders, bills. Go home on 6:15 boat. Home at 7:30. Supper. A good one. Do not tell her that I do not intend to go back to camp. I have decided not to after tackling pile of work before me. Cost up accounts. Surprised to find I have approximately $1,200 equity in shop. Fix sale price at $1,000 on time, $900 for cash. Dictate a telegram which Rachel sends for me. Leah resolved not to worry over consequences. She realizes I cannot go back till tomorrow, but Rebekah, Rachel and mother-in-law are worried terribly. Stare at me in open-mouthed amazement. Picture me in prison. Apter calls meuptotellmehewishestoseeme.Iamtoo busy. Back to work on books until 11:30. To bed after a cup of tea. Much to talk about. Leah behaves as a good wife should. Make plans for tomorrow. Sleep well. First offence against military regulations.
