Author: Frederick Harold Tubb.
Date: Saturday 03.07.1915.
Nationality: Australian.

Up early, getting things together 8.50 off to report at the base 8.20 . Having breakfast in Majestic. just seen Lt Price, Embarkation officer & he told me that it is the Scotian we go in, and she leaves between 3 and 4pm today. I forgot to mention that last night, when I was wakened by a great row outside in the street at about midnight.  & looking out of the window I saw a crowd of Australians in full cry after about a dozen American sailors (off the Indian Tennessee I think) they ran them to earth at the Grand Palace hotel cafe just opposite my window.  Some of The Australians punched the Yanks hard. The town guard turned out (Australians) & it took over an hour before things quietened down. The Americans were called many names
 
They had been making pro German protestation that angered our boys Only for the Guard I think the Americans would have been half killed -  It was fun to watch it. The niggers fled as soon as the punching started? Got to base & received orders to embark on T.S. Scotian, went back to hotel and gathered things together & took arabiah down to Wood quay found the boat & got aboard 11.20 am, had my Cabin allotted to me No19 a good one. The boat is very fine, plenty of room & fine saloons etc. Lt Fraser is not going to England as before stated. he has yet to go before medical board. There are a lot of ships here some disembarking British Troops. Have had a look round. It is a lovely boat a fine lounge every convenience The Cuthbert & Pera are on our Port sid starboard side. boat 47 & others on the Port side. Major Young Supply officer is coming over also - There are about 30  46 officers aboard. At 3 pm a big draft of men, reinforcements & convalescents from Zeitoun came aboard. There are about 24 33 of the old 7 th boys that have recovered from their wounds amongst them. A boat on the Port side is discharging horses Artillery from England 6.50. We are off 7pm the tug has left us & we are leaving Alexandria behind Mex is receding in the distance in the Starboard astern. A number of N Zealanders are amongst us & some British English officers also. Col Whitehead of Burma is O.C. Troops. 