Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 1 July 1918.
Nationality: Australian

Text:


Mon. Jul. 1, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
After breakfast- "Who will get flowers
for our table?" I will. Beautiful roses
across the street. I get some. Lt. G.,
"What are you doing with them?" "For
our boudoir." "Nix. Gassed." Into the
swill barrel.
Up at 6:00 with a congested nose and head.
It is a long tine since I have awakened thus.
Wash up, feeling much refreshed. Breakfast in
a most modern kitchen. The boys do not idle
for a single moment. They have been out into
the town and through the pottery and return
with crockery. If we wish, we might have our
meals served on china. Breakfast. Roast beef
hash, Karo, coffee. Himpler out on special
duty trying to locate Bandler and his squad,
who are reported missing. Found by Himp and
Captain who was anxious about men. Squad
was lost in the night. Waited until the daylight
to return. Our room is swept up, furniture
moved about and put in order. Lt. means to
take 5 men out to lines in wood on hill. I am in
the detail. Fully armed. Lt. called to Hdqrs. by
orderly with message as we are about to start.
Cpl. Thurn takes charge. One aspect of new
work that I like, is that when we go out it is
not necessary to restrain my temper, because a
noncom spends a half hour figuring how to get
three men into a column of twos. We march as
we please for greater safety. Halt a few
minutes at end of town. French 75s are saying
good morning to Fritz. Signs of very recent
gas attack are evident. Shrapnel plentiful on
road and embankment. Past ........ and into the
hills. Up a very steep one, into the woods. See
many new things in the zone. Protection
always near at hand in numerous dugouts and
funkholes. Defensive bombs, gas signals, etc.
Meet Lt. to explain our mission to him. Cpl.
takes half hour longer than necessary to do so.
Got nervous listening to his chatter. Scene
reminds me of picture of Hdqrs. in Civil War
times, I have seen in the States. General at
table in secured position. Private, orderly
standing at respectful distance, delivering an
incoherent message- in nine colors. Should be
only 1 in white, pasty white, the color of our
complexions. Start on a tour of the post. Miles
of ditches cut through stone, dirt, tree roots,
twisting in a bewildering maze. Boardwalks
for flooring, where I expected to find none. A
196dizzy job to traverse the trenches, which are
not in the pink of condition. Pretty well
knocked about. They are deep enough in most
places for us to walk erect without being seen
above the parapet. Stores for various kinds of
ammunition every few feet. Rockets, flares,
etc. M.O's, bomb throwers, trench mortars
ready for instant action. Woods in No Man's
Land and for a considerable distance back of
our lines is now nothing but ruin. Scarred
stumps and trunks all that is left. Fallen
branches present an almost impenetrable
barricade against attack from either side. Poor
observation to be had at the outposts, which
we visit to familiarize ourselves with their
positions, though their construction is very
ingenious and represents a vast amount of
labor. Well supplied with ammunition. Men
are rationed on tinned stuff. They are by no
means lacking in courage, though sadly
deficient in the realization of the importance
of their duties. Because nothing happens, they
grow lax. They will get out of that shortly. At
each one we rest while Cpl. Thurn gets on my
nerves talking. At 11, I take off my belt for
greater comfort. Thurn suddenly decides to go
on. He is well acquainted with lines. To me
they are like a jig saw puzzle. The only
excitement we have had so far has been
furnished by ourselves. We talk in whispers
and imagine naive wonders. Stop at 12 to
inquire about progress and observations made.
None, Corp. Thurn takes a look but from a
hole which is well concealed. Black looks
over a parapet through glasses. Thurn, white
as a sheet, excited beyond control, comes over
to Black, pulls him down and commands us all
to duck. He has seen two German snipers with
guns leveled at Black. We look at each other, I
believe, to see who is bravest. We see each
other shivering. I am quaking in my boots. My
heart is thumping so that I cannot breathe.
Corp. takes a bomb. Black and Maloy who
have snipers' rifles make an attempt to take a
shot, provided Thurn can pick them up again
through the glasses. We set our feet down on
that. It would give us away. A Sgt. from 10
comes. When he hears the news, he is not
anxious to stay. Cautiously we wend our way
toward 10. It is hard to make our legs move.
Look and listen. A most dramatic scene.
Maloy looking through glasses and we, all
ready to shoot, wait what seems an age.
Nervous strain too great to stand. We do not
know what is to our left, where there is a noise
which sounds suspicions. It is best to go back.
More theatricals. I am as frightened as any of
them. Out on path with a great sigh of relief. I
feel much lighter. I feel myself. A good reason
why I am feeling free. My ammunition belt is
not on my person. Consternation. I forgot to
put it on then we left post 11. What am I to
do? Nothing. Back to quarters, consoling each
ether with "next time" resolves and post
mortems. I haven't a damn thing to say. It is
hard enough to be afraid without lying. An
hour to mess time. I can find a tonic in my
book, so I read. Mess. Hash, onion sauce,
bread, coffee. Hungry enough to ask for more.
Eat outside on a table in the garden. Read
again until Lt. comes back and finishes his
lunch. Announces detail for day because he
must leave. Gillece and I ordered to ........ OP
from 7 to 12. A good opportunity to write.
Disturbed by a visit from Jerry's planes. At
four I plan to bathe my feet. Go to the brook
with my soiled clothes, which I will wash. An
aeroplane buzzing around. Back to the kitchen
for a dixie and filling it with water, I go back
to the kitchen to do the job. Wash my clothes
there too. Hang then to dry. Get a handful of
forbidden fruit, currants. Supper is ready.
Rice, bread, butter, coffee. Eat outside.
Finished, I get ready to go on duty. Borrow a
belt. Out with Gillece. As usual he asks a lot
of questions, and wishes often that the Lord
will permit him to kill a German. He is sober
in spite of the fact that there were 5 canteens
197of red wine at home. I have asked Himpler to
forbid him to drink any and he has succeeded
in doing so. Arrive at post to relieve Farrell
and Messinger without incident. Frenchy No.
1 is there. He is tired and goes out to parapet
to take a nap. Left alone, I instruct Gillece in
use of glasses and tell him where I think the
German trench lines are. He looks for 15
minutes through glasses that are not focused.
He is as bright as gunmetal tonight. I observe
for a half hour or more straining my eyes
uselessly. Do not observe any motion
whatever, except from the crows. So it is, until
it is too dark to see. No. 3, the silent
Frenchman, comes and makes preparations for
the night. Flaps down. Door curtains down.
Candles lit. Frenchy wants to write. Tries to
tell Gillece who looks at him with a most
stupid stare. I explain. Frenchy writes. I study
French, send Gillece outside. Machine gun fire
heard, 4 or 5 bursts of it. There is more action
than usual. Artillery on both sides working.
French send over about 50 75's. Once an
unusual series of reports. A mystery to us. On
our reports we put it, in interrogatory form.
From our right, where we saw Germans in the
morning, three long bursts of fire with ????
Looks like E is getting action from Germans
who are angered by Lt. Griffiths treatment of
them in afternoon. He was out with Thurn
with a rifle to verify Thurn's morning report.
Sees three German snipers in camouflaged
suits crawling around near our lines. He takes
a crack at them. Result unknown because
Thurn, who had the glasses on them, was so
frightened by the report of the gun and
flinches. Interesting to note down what I hear.
Outside to look for flares, etc. It is pitch dark.
We cannot see anything. Frenchman writes his
letters. At 12 he leaves. I begin a letter to
Leah. Wade comes with relief. I stop writing,
wake up Gillece, who is asleep on chair on
platform. Wade is drunk. Have difficulty in
finding arms which I have left outside. It is too
dark to see. Proceed by sense of touch. Wade
leads. Cannot see where we are going. Shells
come over. We wait to hear their whizz. Go on
when we ascertain direction of travel. I think
Wade is playing Wild West. It is, Pvt. Black
whispers all the way in. Step high so that I will
not stumble. Make for kitchen to look for
coffee. None. Strike messes and make a lot of
noise. Transport is in town. A ray of light from
Lt's. window. He is still at work, soon sleeps. I
go up to give him our reports. We talk it over
for a half hour. He has made up a roster of our
duties. Gillece and I are assigned to ........ in
the future. Long shifts in our own platoon's
sector. Work there will begin in the morning.
Go to bed at 1:15. Read Terchy. Machine guns
still going. Tonight window is open. Much
more comfortable to sleep. Succeed very well
in going about in the dark. Clothes on.