
Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 3 May 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Fri. May 3, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good, leg sore
Up at 5:45. Reveille. Up for breakfast.
Oatmeal, bacon, bread, coffee. Go over gun
again to make sure it is clean. Out for drill with packs and other equipment. Captain and
1st Sgt. not with us. They have gone to the
front to observe. One of our new Lieuts. in
charge of company. Go to drill field. When on
main road we assume that a gas attack is likely
and carry our masks at the alert position. Not
thinking we would carry imagination any
further than that, I do not pay attention.
Caught by surprise when cry comes from rear
"Gas". Halt but foolishly continue to breathe
until mask is ready to be put on. Under actual
conditions of attack I might have been gassed
by the time I had helmet on. Continue walking
along road looking like an army of unearthly
creatures for 19 minutes. My mask works like
a charm. No clouding of eyepieces or excess
salivation. Just a little stiffness of the tongue
muscles and a bit warmer than normal.
Remove masks before we enter drill field.
Rest for 10 minutes. Resume work with
manual. Then skirmish drill by squads. Annoy
Callahan. Take it easy. Assembled to take a
little lesson in trench digging. With my small
entrenching shovel, I get to work deepening a
communications trench. Ground is like clay,
stubborn and sticky. Tiring work. Corporal sits
on mound and bosses work, for all the world
like a foreman of a section gang digging a hole
in our country. Does not last long. Get a little
close order with entire company, new
formations. Go to drill field on other side of
detention camp. Fall out for instruction in
machine gun. Lesson for the day is cause and
remedies for stoppages. Make notes on what is
said. Work until time for company to return.
Corporal tells us more of his experiences and
"how to win the war". Back by short cut.
Comfortable travelling. Leg not bothering me
at all. Dinner on return. Stew, hard tack,
coffee. A little rest before we go out again for
drill. Acting C.O. announces that we will send
out a platoon in advance, which will take up a
position somewhere in the neighborhood of
target butts. We will give them a half hour's
handicap and then follow in an endeavor to
find them. Kidding. Remainder of company
goes off by long way around. Hot as blazes in
sun. Get a rest. Push on till we reach the main
road. Fall out by roadside. Sit down beside a
couple of daisies. Pluck them and pull them
apart. Both tell me welcome news. Laugh at
thought of unusual occupation for a soldier.
Push on again sending out scouting parties to
look for supposed enemy. Travel along in very
leisurely fashion at route step. We come up
behind butts without having sighted anyone.
Frequent stops to observe and reconnoiter.
Scouts come in with reports of failure to locate
enemy. March to point where commander is to
meet us. Meet up with Colonel when our
column is spread all over the road in a very
disorderly fashion. Colonel ascertains who is
in command of detachment and relieves him,
probably raking him a bit. He looks
exceedingly discomforted. Not finding our
quarry we go back, in better formation. See
Colonel again, this time quizzing corporal in
charge of an outpost. He calls Lt. Gives him
instructions for future conduct. We get back at
an easy pace. Clean gun and oil it while
waiting for retreat formation. Lt. announces
inspection for tomorrow and gives instructions
for addressing mail to home. Supper, bully
beef, pickles, marmalade, bread, coffee. Write
in field by pump, while I am waiting to have
my hair clipped. That procedure is gone
through with an air of great resignation. I sit
on stone basin and view destruction barber is
inflicting with a pang of sorrow as each clump
of hair falls to the ground. Begins to feel cool
immediately. A fine foraging area for
mosquitos now. I wash my head of an old
collection of scale and dandruff. Feels really
good and clean. Back to barn. Take joshing of
boys good-naturedly. No need for combing
little tuft of hair remaining in front. Morning
toilet can be accomplished much quicker. Wait
until it grows dark. Clean my shoes and  leggings of mud. Make my bed and lie down
at 9:30. Sleep well but conscious of dampness
all night. Not aware of any sustained action at
front. One would almost believe in absence of
news to the contrary that peace had been
declared. A few distributed shots fired.
Aeroplanes active flying in squadrons toward
line. Do not notice their return. An occasional
burst of machine gun fire heard in air. Many
supply wagons and horses have passed down
returning from a period of duty behind lines.
Tommies looked very tired. Badly in need of
rest. Most of then snoozing outside of quarters
when we go by in afternoon. Go to village to
get chocolate for which I pay a very high
price. I must have it at any cost.