Author: Thomas James Richards.
Date: 21st March 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

March 21st.  Wednesday. Morning Parade:-- New attacking formation lecture.    "           "                "               practice. Afternoon Parade:-- Rugby football match. Officers V. N.C.O.s. One try each. 1700 Lecture. BAYONET FIGHTING by Capt. Hood. Army Instructional Staff. "It has been a very great surprise to me to actually see for myself what little some of the 1st. Aust. Division know about bayonet fighting; their attempt at both the "long point" and the withdrawal are bad. An infantry unit has at its command three weapons. 1st. Rifle and bayonet) - 30 - 2nd. Grenades )                              ) Each of importance in the named order. 3rd. Lewis Guns) While you officers and N.C.O.s are at school especial attention should be given to your bayonet work so that you will be able to correct errors on your return to your companys. Teach your men to make good points and proper withdrawals. There was a time when bayonet fighting was practiced by numbers: It looked very nice too. I've known bayonet exercises
to be practiced keeping time to the regimental band. (Laughter). But it was all nonsense, and from the commencement of the war right down to the present time we have been taking notice and improving our system of training. Now bayonet fighting is not taught through the ear; everybody
must learn through the eye and brain. On guard position the left arm is slightly bent. The man must stand straight, leaning back a little but on no account to be bent forward. Practice controle must be taught and properly controled  in getting through, or over, obstacles. The enemy trench must be rushed by as many men at one time as is possible; therefore the men must be controled to come forward in a line so as to throw its whole weight into the trench at the same moment. The bayonet must be used with force. It must be made to kill. The breast on each side is a good mark, but its disadvantages
are that the bayonet might get fastened between the ribs. The belly is a fatal spot but being guarded by equiptment
etc. it should be avoided. Either of the groins are the most useful places to point as the arteries pass close to the surface and are easily severed. When the enemy is running away the kidneys are the most certain point. The parry must be done without the bayonet point being taken off the enemys body. Butt strokes may be useful but should only be taught by way of a light exercise. Men should use their knees and feet when in close quarters. Attention should be paid to physical training. Games are not part of the training but simply to break the monotony. Troops in attack should not be hurried to the extent of arriving at their objective "blown." As in bayonet work the troops must be fresh and in proper condition to go on with the fighting. 