Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 11 August 1918.
Nationality: Australian

Text: 

Sun. Aug. 11, 1918
Weather: Fair, Hot
Health: Good
A happy day: The Captain tells me he
has recommended me to be one of the
men who goes back to the States to
instruct in Army Camp on infantry
work.
Up at 7:00. The first thing to think about is
breakfast. Our own mess is not promised for
11 o'clock, because Doolan the Cook is too
tired to get up. Lt. Hepburn goes below calling
for him and looking for him, but he cannot be
found until some of our men, who know where
he has bunked, call him. I find we are not in as
dense a forest as I at first thought. We look
about for something to eat. Many bugles
blowing mess call. Gillece tries to get mess at
E Co. taking down two mess kits. He brings
back coffee but no hash which is part of their
mess. They are not in a generous mood this
morning. Lts. also carefully watching the
lines. Streetor goes down to E Co.'s line and
gets none. I go down and manage to get
coffee, but no more. Nothing to do but wait
until our mess is ready. I wash and get water.
Some men have been roaming about the
woods and have picked up little things left
behind by the Germans, such as newspapers,
tin helmets, cigarette boxes. And then, in the
wild scramble for water, which is hard to get,
asking the Frenchmen who live in German
built barracks a little above us, they get bottles
of German mineral water of which 10 or 11
big cases have been left behind in their retreat.
Our KPs must go a mile for it to the railroad
station. A French water cart is filled up but
they refuse to let us take any of it. Then the
officers become aware of the rush to the
mineral water, which the French give away,
and forbid us to drink it. The French are
dining sumptuously. They have ham, boiled,
French fried potatoes, cheese, wine and coffee.
Besides they have a well stocked larder of
bologna, fresh vegetables and tinned stuffs.
Our breakfast is ready. We have bacon, prunes
raw, hard tack and coffee. We try an
innovation which proves a success, by frying
the biscuits after soaking them. We get plenty.
Explosions heard right of us in the open field,
without any warning, whizz or the echo of a
gun. It is a continued a mystery to us until we
decide that our men are exploding duds of
which there are thousands strewn about in the
fields. Wandering through the ........ woods,
other men discover dugouts and machine gun
emplacements, rifles and gas masks. Some
potato mashers about, and it is not long before
men are reported to have hurt themselves
picking up and meddling with things they
know nothing about. The officers forbid
wandering about or going to town without a
pass. Even when going for water the men
cannot leave the camp area without a pass.
Full equipment must be worn, which as before
is a source of discomfort and unruliness
among the men. Lt. Bush of .. Co. gives his
men a little lecture on the subject, telling them
to submit with the best of grace, for only by
obedience to the order can they bring about its
recall. Aeroplanes are more numerous here
than any place we have been in. They fly low
enough for the pilot to be seen or so high that
they are either invisible or can just barely be
seen. All of them, whether Ally or Boche are
shelled by anti-aircraft guns as soon as they
are within range. The artillery is still
peppering away with just the least bit less
intensity than during the night, when it is
reported, our boys advance eight kilos.
Anxious to write but nowhere can I obtain
privacy and quiet. Nothing better to do, fall
asleep until I hear the rattle of mess kits,
which means dinner is ready. Same old roast
275beef hash, that I am growing tired of, stewed
prunes, hard tack and coffee, which has
become a scarce thing lately. After attending
to a few little duties around my bunk, I write,
lying down in the sun on a blanket. It soon
becomes very uncomfortable. Roasting hot
and my body becomes stiff from the position I
lie in. I must move. Almost as fast as I move
the sun follows me. I cannot find shade and
comfort near bunk. Constantly interrupted by
the throb and boom of aeroplane motors.
There is as much traffic in the air as there is on
the roads. Force of will enables me to finish
my task by supper time. We have more hash,
biscuits and coffee. Inclined to take a walk
into the hollow where are a lot of German
works of interest. There are shelters for
riflemen and machine gunners on the slope, so
plentiful that it looks like a network of holes.
A well was being sunk into the sandy ground,
which was half completed when the Boche
was forced to run. The sand taken out of the
hole is as white as the sand of the beaches of
which it reminds me. Little huts built of
corrugated iron, built for two, are being
occupied by our men. The large barracks, I
notice, are of the ready built type, which come
shipped complete, ready to set up. Unexploded
shells and bombs plentiful among the trees and
in the bushes. The Frenchman shows us two
big shells and explains to us in where they are
inferior to ours. Shell holes plentiful but little
evidence of gas having been used.
Occasionally the nasty smell of decomposing
flesh. I have Gillece's pistol with me and
therefore do not wish to stay out long for fear
he may wish to use it, so I return and I am
informed that the Captain wishes to see me. I
cannot imagine what for. There is a smile
upon Lt. Cook is face as I draw near and from
that I take it I am in for a scolding about
something, which is the only thing in
connection with me he would find delight in. I
salute the Captain, who draws me aside and
tells me he has been asked to send in to
headquarters the name of a man whom he
thinks should go back to the States, and he has
recommended me. I cannot believe my ears. I
do not know what to say. I am all atremble. I
thank him as best I can. Tell him that I have
been very much interested in my work, but
would like to go home to see baby and Leah.
Go back to where my blankets lie and stare
into space and dream of home. I tell nobody of
what has happened. Soon the rumor spreads
that men from each company are going home;
then their names become known. The battalion
orderlies, who brought in the orders and took
back the names submitted, have spread the
news. My name is in everybody's mouth.
Some are jealous, others are glad that it is I
whom the Captain wishes to send home. I am
congratulated on all sides. Pestered to death
with the well wishers, when I long to be left
alone with Leah, Cecilie and Mama. Kelly and
Fleischer, runners, tell me in confidence what
I already know. Men want me to take their
addresses so that I can visit their folks and
take back things with me, for them.
Schlesinger makes a very impassioned speech
about how he goes into the battle ahead. He is
sure of death and wants me to tell his elder
brother all about it, have supper at his house
and cheer up his mother. I refuse to listen to
him. Tell him to follow my example whenever
there is a mother's worries to worry about.
Accept nobody's commissions or
congratulations, for I still cannot believe that I
may go home. I cannot believe that a 1st class
private will be accorded the privilege and
honor of going home to instruct men and why
was my name selected. I never was a favorite
with the Captain or Lt. C. I lie down, undress,
get under the covers. It becomes more quiet. I
can hear my name mentioned in the tents near
me. Hell breaks loose soon after dark. The sky
lit up by flames of white and red light,
continuously. The guns go off at intervals of a
276tenth of a second, so with my thoughts it will
be impossible to sleep the few hours that
remain till 3:30, when we must be on the
move again. Canteens ordered filled, which is
an order that has an ominous import. It seems
that we go into the lines. There is the added
worry of being killed before the 19th, when
the men to go back to the States get under
way. The joyous news I have heard and the
worry about our next move have the effect of
keeping me awake all night. I pray fervently
and long that the Lord let me go home to my
loved ones, safe and soon. Try hard as I will, I
cannot shut my eyes. My brain is too active. I
am fully awake. I see and hear everything that
goes on. Time goes slowly. The stars are out
in full force and I see the wonders of the night.
Stars fall to earth and stars rise slowly, vanish
into the heavens. Our monitor gun not far from
us is fired at regular intervals and the shock is
so great that my body seems to rise from the
ground with each explosion. I hear the cooks
get up, hear them call the bugler later, and
once I look behind me and think the forest is
aflame from the cook's fire, which I am afraid
will be seen and draw a bomb from the
enemies' planes. Stars rise and stars fall. All
omens are propitious and I am almost certain
that I will go home.
Mon. Aug. 12, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
Hike 7 Kilos to east of ........ in the
woods, and later back again with lift in
a lorry
Hop out of bed as soon as the bugle blows,
lighthearted and happy. Though I have not
slept a wink all night, I do not mind. I am
feeling as fresh as a daisy. Mess call blows. I
go towards the kitchen fire, which is my
guide, stumbling over tree stumps and matted
brush in the dark underfoot. The men of my
company are silent. The men of other
companies are glad that I go home and
congratulate me heartily. In spite of my
protests that I am not sure, they all take it for
granted that I am the lucky man. Had I but
known what lies in store for me! I protest, yes,
but I am sure that I will go back on the 19th,
for have I not prayed all night and have I not
had a thousand omens before me that augured
well. I build castles instead of inquiring of the
Captain is it possible to send home a private. I
am shown consideration by the cook who
gives me plenty of bacon, prunes, hard tack
and coffee and the men all make way for me
and bowing, seeing me already a sergeant or
more. Dress by the fire and make up my pack
as soon as I get to my blanket. The day breaks.
Soon a wonderful purple sunrise tints the sky.
Is not such a sunrise a good omen and if all the
boys smile when I think of home, does not that
mean that I go home? My pack made up.
Streetor gives me tobacco. Gillece pays a debt
that he owes me. That annoys me. We form at
5 and march to the road. I can walk 20 miles
to-day, with a pack on my back. Out on the
road we wait for E and F Cos. to assemble and
march behind us. In front is a plain, which
under a veil of mist looks like a sea in the
morning quiet. Piles of shells at regular
intervals on the road, which the Boche left
behind in his hurried flight. Shells packed in
wicker cases, thousands of feet of narrow
gauge railroad track, tools, etc. "Duds" all over
the place. At 5:15 we are off. Pass a German
ammunition dump, the largest ever seen. More
than a million shells of all sizes and kinds are
here. The system of camouflage employed
something new. Readily see its effectiveness.
Old abandoned guns, helmets, cartridges,
articles of clothing, cookers, limbers. We
march openly across the plain in full view of
277the enemy, if he is looking. Over the
battlefield where are evidences of the struggle
everywhere, the crops of wheat ruined, the
graves of Germans in the fields and by the
road, the ground pitted with shell holes.
Mounds of earth from which comes a terrible
stench. Rotting remains of horses and humans
underneath, or perhaps in the grain where they
fell unnoticed. The crows which rise from the
fields at our approach in such great numbers,
probably disclose where men and horses rot in
the hot sun. After passing a piece of road
which smells, the fresh air seems good and it
is a relief to breathe again. One cannot hold
one's breath too long. Simpson, who marches
beside me, can talk of nothing but my good
fortune, till I doubt if it is well to be so sure of
the visit I may pay Leah, Cecilie and Mama. I
ask him to change the subject of conversation.
We come to a bar across the road. The
Lieutenant runs ahead to reconnoiter. There is
a bridge, which has been blown up and
destroyed. We think it spans a river flowing
through a deep cut. The Major commands
"Forward" and I see myself wading through
water. I pity the Major's well-polished boots
and natty uniform. For myself, I don't care.
Nothing matters now. We march up to the
bank. It is a railroad cut 40 ft. deep with a 60
degree angle. A precarious descent which the
Major makes over the broken rock of the
fallen span. I follow his path instead of going
down the grassy slope where there is no
footpath. Danger of exploding bombs among
the rocks, German bombs which lie strewn
around promiscuously in large numbers.
Those who follow are ordered not to cross
over the rocks. The Major stands on the bank
on the other side directing the Capt. as to how
to bring over his men, while I take the tiring,
hot, steep climb up with a heavy pack on my
back. It will take more than a half hour to
bring all the men across, which we who were
lucky to lead the column will enjoy by resting.
On the other side an ammunition dump blown
up, shells spread all over the terrain. Rest for a
long time at the crossroads while we watch
aeroplane battles, see them manoeuver as they
are shelled from the ground; admire the
courage of the aviators. Our big guns being
drawn on rubber-tired trucks to take up new
positions further ahead to keep up with the
advancing infantry. We are off again, passing
by anti-aircraft guns mounted behind
camouflaged shelters on the plains, and heavy
artillery quite close to us, yet which we cannot
locate accurately. The crash as they go off,
sometimes more than one at a time, hurts my
eardrums so that I cannot hear. The
concussion shakes us up pretty well. Through
........ going east into the woods. We halt and
rest in a sheltered spot for an hour, while a
camp site is being looked up by the officers.
Two Germans lie buried near us and it smells
when the wind blows in our direction. Try to
sleep but I cannot. There is too much noise
from the artillery, which is below us now, and
besides I am on my way home. A site found,
we march to it, stack arms and remove
equipment, lie around in horse dung and hay
wondering about dinner. Some hard tack about
the men, which is divided up. Lt. orders two
men back to where three companies are,
without packs, so that they may lead them in,
in the afternoon. Then a corporal and two
privates rise to go back to Regimental Hdqrs.
to wait till the 1st and 3rd battalions come up
in from 1 to 5 days. Sgt. sends me on the party
as I will soon leave them. Take my pack and
go back with Doherty and McCleary. Meet
Moss, company clerk. He is not so cordial as
yesterday. Meet Cpl. Rist, who congratulates
me and shakes my hand. On the road to wait
for 3 men, whom Moss is sending back. They
do not appear, so we go off without them in a
fierce hot blistering sun. No lorry to give us a
lift. A dead horse in a ditch by the roadside to
offend us. Get a lift in an ambulance to near
278the YMCA warehouse. They do not sell at
retail, but we convince the men that we are
hungry, so we get a box of crackers each.
Walk for a while in the road, dusty and red
hot. A lorry gives us a lift. I lose my helmet
and almost my life getting on. To the devil
with the helmet. I will get another,
somewhere, so I do not bother getting off to
recover it. I value the ride more. Two men
from the outfit we relieve are in the car. They
tell of their hardships. 30 days in the line,
nothing to eat, no water, not properly clothed.
Tell how they drove the huns and how it cost
them about 60% of the men. They steal a tin of
bully beef from the chauffeur's iron ration, so
hungry are they. Get off in ........ and find
Headquarters after a little difficulty. Scout
about for something to eat and get bully beef
hash, bread and coffee with Hdqrs. Company.
The colonel sends Corp. Doherty back again
with a message to Major Budd in a side car,
fortunately for Doc. We hang around till
supper. Macaroni, some hash, bread, coffee.
Doherty comes back. I am writing. Bougartz
comes with a message to the Colonel. It is that
the Captain wants to replace Corp. Rist's name
with Sgt. Burley's name as the man who goes
home. This means that Rist, the man who
shook hands with me, honestly glad that I go
home, has been substituted for me and I can
see why. My Captain again at fault and he
cannot pay the debt he owes me. He did not
know enough to make me a non-com for the
occasion. I am dumb and dejected, sad and
mad. Rist's name has already been submitted
and the Colonel will not substitute another. I
am glad for Rist's sake. I am not jealous. It is
my Captain's fault and my own for not
questioning the point in doubt - my rank. Not
yet will I see Leah and Cecilie and Mama. I
will wait and trust in God. He knows. It is His
will. I write until dark. Pitch a tent with
Doherty in the dark. We have no pins, no
poles. A comical situation, an awful job. One
minute we laugh, the next we swear.
Bayonets, bolos, trench twines, wire, pins
made out of twigs and an old badger shoe
(McCleary's) play a part. Go to bed sweating
from the exertion. I say my prayers. "His will
Be Done." A wild night on the battlefield. I
cannot sleep. I curse every man who fires a
gun. Even myself, if I ever do. Restless and
awake all night. The guns are thunder, the
flares are lightning, the rain is shrapnel. Why
do men do it? Why do they kill? Why do they
destroy? I have no courage to-night. No will to
live. Then think of Leah and Cecilie. I must
not despair. 2 of our OB's brought down in
flames.