Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 24 June 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 


Mon. Jun. 24, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
Up at 6:00. Reveille. Observation balloons up
on hill. Sgt. McGay absent. No fuss. Over
with promptly. Newsman blows his welcome
horn. It is a message from civilization that he
brings. It makes breakfast more enjoyable to
sit down as of old to eat and read the news of
the day. Police around bunk and make a
hurried cleanup of my gun. Lt. has threatened
an inspection. I must not give him the
opportunity to make good his threat of
yesterday that a man found with a dirty gun
will receive an appointment to the white wing
squad of the town. We, who remember that,
look at Lenehan and laugh. Breakfast, plenty.
Bacon, bread, Karo, coffee. As usual, I absent-
mindedly place plate containing syrup where it
will drip. I lose a good portion of it, which
glues up straw bedding. I spend ten minutes
with my gun cleaning outfit. Kaplan asks me if
I am on guard duty for to-day. No! He wants
me to report to Cpl. Haight for a "soft job". I
have no faith in that. Rather think I am called
to answer for having written to the boys is
such a peculiar strain. Come what may it is
best to wash. Maybe I can charm away
officers' anger with my neat appearance. I
hurry as much as possible, reporting to Cpl.
Haight, while all officers are in Orderly Room.
I am to be orderly for the day he tells us. Lt. C.
displeased with Kaplan's choice, very
evidently. My duties begin at once and consist
of waiting outside for half an hour, then sent
to Battalion Hdqrs. with papers, returning to
Haight with others. Run to ask Lt. a question,
once more to Batt. Hdqrs. and my morning's
work is done. I get back to billets for a
newspaper and a French Grammar belonging
to Havens to help while away the time. The
slowest, sleepiest job in the world. Bugle
blows every fifteen minutes it seems, warning
of an aeroplane overhead, which must be
obeyed by getting under cover to prevent
pictures from being taken, or hurt coming to
anyone accidentally from dropping shrapnel.
Fritz is overhead early but is quickly driven
away. One of our planes is dodging back and
forth over the lines, being shelled constantly.
He goes through the morning's program safely.
I admire his nerve and coolness. Rumours of
heavy losses among Co. C last night. Officers
and Co. clerks have it. I believe it is true,
because it is uniformly the same from many
sources. Rather worries us. Major especially.
Go to mess a little ahead of time, finding 15
minutes to write. Mess. Soup, fit for a Duke's
table, pork and beans, bread, coffee. I had a
few nuts previous to dinner, making a meal
which fills me up to the neck, a heavy feeling
resulting. Back to my bench by the brook to
study French. I do that all afternoon. Not a
single errand until 4 o'clock, when Captain
sends me to hunt up Lts. to tell them he wishes
to meet them at once to go over sector with
them. I pick strawberries on my way back.
Large, juicy, red ones. Handfuls of them.
Aviators take an afternoon off. So do gunners.
A lazy, restful afternoon spent in wishing I
were prepared to write and in study. Supper
comes and with it another errand to my
barracks. Men are lined up getting new caps,
wrap leggings, 2 prs., socks, a shirt, if one has
been lost, and a stick with two small pieces of
wire gauze, purpose of which we do not know.
Suggest it can be used as a fly swatter. Dress
up in our new trappings immediately. Pleased
with myself. Supper, for which I have no
desire, is again very good. Bully beef stew,
jam, bread, coffee. Report back for duty in
Orderly room. A crowd around infirmary next
door. I look upon a pitiful sight, French
soldiers brought in from the lines, tear-gassed.
They are in great pain. Eyes swelled, red-
183lidded, tearing in a steady stream, totally blind
temporarily. Coughing, vomiting, some
burned about the legs and arms too. They are
led indoors by a brother soldier. Follow
meekly, suffering in silence, answering
questions put to them by men convalescing
from slight wounds, obediently. Tell how it
came about. Women in street look on and cry.
In all about a dozen cases brought in. One, a
woman, comes on foot from a nearby place,
for treatment, led by a man. That affects me
more than anything else I have seen. Shame
that a woman, a noncombatant, should be
exposed to injury and death. When
ambulances have ceased bringing in their toll
of wounded I am asked to distribute mail for
the company. I look anxiously for letters.
Disappointed again. Very few letters. Some
newspapers and magazines. I am besieged by
everybody waiting to hear from home. Back to
my post where a discussion of gas brings up
question of how long we can hold our breath.
A competition which I lose. Haight makes a
remarkable record of 1:4O. I study French for
another hour. Seat myself beside Sgts. on
bench going over events of the day. Another
ambulance full of gas cases pulls in. Some
minor injuries among them in a second car.
Woman returns for treatment. She must live
very near at hand, in which case this town is in
greater danger than we thought, from hostile
gas or shell attacks. Captain and Lts. return
from sector. I wait a few minutes before going
in to ask if I am needed, as I am told to do by
Haight. I intrude upon their supper. Lt. Cook
looks at me as though I were most despised
criminal, but I pay no attention to him. Told
that I am not needed. Back to quarters at once
to write. Sunset is the signal for an aeroplane
sortie by Fritz. Town takes cover. Antis try to
wing him without success. He is driven away,
having done no damage. I write till 10:30 by
candlelight. Heavy guard posted to be alert for
gas and air raids. Major directs that gas masks
are to be kept close at hand. Some men
discussing possibility of getting orders to go
up in reserve at night. I do not think it
possible, judging from what Height told me,
that we would remain for four or five days and
then relieve H and E. Comparatively quiet to-
night, both in and out of the barracks.
Carefully roll up my leggings and go to bed.
Sleep like a top. It is cool and quiet. An Army
truck runs over the leg of an ox, breaking it.
The calmest Frenchman I ever saw is the
owner. He makes no complaint, swears at no
one and apparently does not want indemnity in
sum twice the value of his ox. Rumours of C
Co. casualties confirmed by Doctor Trow.