Author: Thomas James Richards.
Date: 19th October 1914.
Nationality: Australian.

Monday Oct 19th. The eventfull day has as last arrived. The camp was astir at 5.30. with kits packed and handed in by 7 am. A damn poor breakfast and we were on the road by 7.45. Tram car were used from Charing Cross to Fort Macquarie wherewere where we were aboard the majestic looking "Euripides" by lights in very quick time. We were put off into messes of 20 men and there we sat for hours until the 3rd Infantry were put aboard. All seemed is readiness to leave by at 2.p.m. but we are still at anchor at 4 o'clock 

There were but few people out this morning as we passed along Oxford St. Yet there were some stiring little
incidents as we drove by. One aged
man holding to a stout stick  for support
tried with as brave a heart as ever
a soldier possessed to stand at
attention. Another old warrior straightened
himself by the aid of a veranda and
xxx saluted. Lots of men & 
women waved a pleasant good-bye
but it was only skin deep; No one
nobody but ignorant persons could
treate such a mission as we are about
to undertake so lightly, and almost
with frivolity. But the men who have
seen service, were as the two above
mentioned, full of sincerity and hope
knowing that there was hard work for
us to do and at the same time with
doubt sorrow & sympathy laying beneath
their hardened but thoughtful casings
of their experienced bodies.
I am no bubber; pain & distraction
hardens and me, and drys my eyes 
to cold clearness, but warm affection & ^with
^a manly consciencious face upon it, fills my eyes
with tears of joy and brotherly feeling
that one is understood. This being
missunderstood' is the greatest trouble I have
noticed on this globe. Most people are so
wrapped up in themselves that they forget
even those nearest them until something
serious happens and brings home these
foolish idea that because they are alright
everything and everybody as ^a I matter
of course must be also.
Many of the hundreds of boat loads of
people that sailed around the "Euripides"
to-day thought of nothing further or deeper
than that a friend or brother was going
to the war and as it was going a
long voyage they came to wave to him 
(not the troops) a pleasant and safe 
return. The Coast Artillery 

with their brass band aboard the
S.S. Miner went around about our
vessel for 1½ hours playing cheerfull
tunes but just before leaving they
struck up "Old Lang Sine", it seemed
to come right from their hearts and
it again dawned upon mye they themselves
were warriors and know and understood
the work ahead of us. They finally
played "God sa Save the King" and
I was fighting again to keep back
the tears as we stood lined up at
attention on the top deck.
Many of our well-wishes waved
flags and shouted franticaly, they were
in earnest too, but it was a couple
of people on the "Burra Bra" making for
Manly that fills made water come to
my eyes when they stood still
and held a blue Australian flag
outstretched. It was plain to me what
was ment they were cold level headed
persons, and seemed to say "keep your
end up boys wherever your going to
just for the honour and for the glory
of your dear Australia and your 
love for the Mothercountry.  It fairly
thrilled b me through & through. It was
one of those silent signals " full of meaning
and respect. When some broken 
down insignificant craft came up close
to us and "tooted" her good wishes on
the shrill siren, it came from the 
right place under the coat.
The rain in heavy showers intermingled
with sunshine must have dampened &
discouraged the folk who came down 
to the Quay and Farm Cove to see
us away. Our boys are tired
and sleepy as they have been up early
in the morning and late to bed
each night. Dinner was a bit
topsy turvey, but is full of promise.
There are 6 or 8 nurses on board,
this afternoon I saw them on the promenade
deck and amongst so much karki colour 

their sky blue dresses with a bright red cape
cape & white hanging cap makes a pleasant
change. This will be particularly
noticable later on when the dungrees
and browns get become an eyesore.
Midst the hooting of whistles
and the cheering of our boys we
slowly steamed down the Harbour
at 5.30 pm, but to our
astonishment we put into
Mossman's Bay and hung up
for the night. There was a 
great scramble for bunks or
hammocks at 6.15. They were
hung very close together so much
so, that when one man turned
over he woke up the man
next to him & set a whole line
of them swinging. Yet the
fellows seemed to favour sleeping
in hammocks to the ground
at Queens Park. I went
to bed about 8 pm and 
up again at 6 a.m.
Ships rations.
Bread 1lb per man
Meat   ¾ lb
Jam    8 ozs per week
Salt      2 "      "       "
Pickle  6 oz
Milk     condensed 1 lb tin per week
Sugar   14 oz per man         " 
Butter  10 1⁄3 oz                      "       "
Potatoes 4½ lb                   per week
 
3,011 men all told on board. Farewell to Sydney
