Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 30 June 1918.

Nationality: Australian

Text:


Sun. Jun. 30, 1918
Weather: Fine, Warm
Health: Good
"Greenwald". "Yep". Rub my eyes. It is the
Lt. " Yes Sir", I correct myself. "I want you to
go to ........ with the morning report. Get
ready!" "Yes Sir“. It is 5:30. I am to go on a
bicycle. No time to wash. Look for a pistol to
arm myself with. None to be found. I take only
my belt. More adventure. I imagine I must run
a gauntlet of fire, and will have to display a
great deal of courage. Long time since I have
been astride a bicycle. Down hill at once. I
like my job. All I must do is sit in the saddle
and ride down hill. Meet Cohn, who has a
message that I should have taken at Hdqrs. at
5:45. A most enjoyable ride for a morning
constitutional. No opportunity to display
bravery. No harrowing fire to ride through.
Touring the country, it seems to me. I do
remember caution enough to keep close to
camouflage screen along road. Many
aeroplanes up and being fired at. Upward of
100 shots fired at them. In ten minutes I am
halted by guard to whom I give password. In
another minute I am before Major with report.
Give Leah's letter into the care of Sgt. Major,
who promises to see that it is mailed. On my
way back, guard does not halt me this time.
Instead he asks for a match. I try to go uphill
on bicycle. Decide to get off and walk; a rest
for my thighs. A few coasting stretches, but
most of the time I walk uphill beside the
bicycle. Last stretch of road a downhill coast
and a short uphill into town, which I ride by
zig-zagging, arriving out of breath, and wet, at
quarters. To pump in square to wash and
shave. A deserted village if there ever was
one. Not until I am finished do I see anyone.
Meet some of our Company men. Ration
dump in store below. Corporal in charge is
still asleep. We wake him to get rations for
breakfast. Kitchen across road in lodge of
chateau. Bean stew and coffee, made
yesterday is being reheated. There are a few
large pieces of bread and beef there, which
have been in gas recently and is unfit for
consumption. The place is filthy with garbage
and dirt. Upstairs are high explosives, stored
away in a corner. The bean stew is sour. The
coffee is fair and with bread and Karo makes
my breakfast. Make plans for setting things in
order. Sweep out thoroughly. Dispose of
decaying garbage and all useless cans and tins,
bags, etc. Conway constitutes himself cook
and begins making dinner. I run through
chateau looking for ink. Find many valuable
articles, I wish could be sent home as
souvenirs. An old quarte French and Latin
dictionary 16 -- . I take it with me to my room.
Write for an hour. Get wood and chop it. Take
a nap or rather try to, disturbed by flies and
one of our anti-air guns directly behind us,
which has a target in the sky. Give it up as a
bad job and go to kitchen to wait for mess.
Kapek, our old cook, and Deyo, KP at ......... ,
have joined our detachment and have been
assigned to take charge of the mess, which
assures us of good meals. There is roast beef
hash, potato, bread, Karo, coffee. As soon as
Lt. finishes his lunch, he assigns Himpler and
me to relieve Black and Maloy at the ........
OF. I am shaky in the knees. I expect to have
to fight for my life every second of my day.
194Lt. takes us out, equipped with rifle belt,
bayonet, mask and glasses. Through an alley
into the trenches. I expected them to be 4 ft.
wide, higher than my head, cut out of earth.
They are wide enough to allow only one to
pass, shored up on both sides, boardwalk
floor, camouflaged on top, winding till I
become dizzy following their course. Come
out into a lit and upon a well camouflaged OP.
A narrow door and inside as safe as an office.
A map, telephone, watches, glasses, etc.
Platform and chair for observer. Table and
chair for recorder. All built into the earth,
bullet proof. Black and Maloy half asleep. A
Frenchman is supposed to be about. He is
asleep on the parapet behind OP. Relieve men,
get a half hour's instructions. Left to ourselves,
finding it quite pleasant, nothing in particular
to do, fear leaves me. I take up post as
observer. Look upon an intricate trench
system, strange to us. No evidence of German
occupation. Directly in front of my glass, in
No Man's Land, is a little white wooden cross.
Only thing to suggest that man has been here.
I take it upon faith that he is here now.
Frenchman comes in. Quite a cheerful person.
I must begin to practice on him. The job
begins to appeal to me. Himpler observes. A
good opportunity to write. I had no idea war
was like this! Observing again. Bang! A cloud
of smoke. It is coming in through peep hole.
Whew! Gas! “Non gas", cries the Frenchman.
"Explosif". "Gas", hoarsely to Himpler. We
take out our masks. "Damn that Frenchman.
He is as cool as ice". I breathe another whiff
of smoke. Look at Himpler and the fire-eater
and put my mask back, all atremble. In a
minute, Bang! Bang! Bang! Behind OP earth
and small stones shower into our doorway.
Houses of the town obscured from view by
smoke. More courageous this time, enough to
remember that I am expected to find out where
they hit, calibre of shell, direction of fire, etc.
Aided to make notations and map readings by
Frenchy. He is relieved by another, who sings
and whistles most of the time. I get along well
with him too. Jerry sends more pills back of
town on road. No casualties. We return the
compliment with 35 to 40 75s to ........ . A puff
of smoke from a trench. I have heard no
whizz. Ask Frenchy what it is. He says it is
our shelling and not in trench but miles
behind. I agree with him. Another. A puff of
yellow, in another. Now he is convinced. Put it
down as a hit on German lines. Quiet except
for aeroplanes which are fired at. I read
photoplay magazine. A third Frenchman
comes. He is not as willing to teach me French
as the others. He only signs and whistles and
reads. Run out to look at aero battles. Relieved
by Wade and Howe at 7:15. On way to
quarters meet Kandel and Weinhold, who tell
us one of our outposts was hit. Herman and
Newberger badly scared. See at once that what
I reported as a hit on German lines was a hit
on ours. Explain circumstances to Lt. when I
see him. Ask if shelling has done any damage
in town. None. Glad of that. Men in the
trenches are hungering. Kitchen is overtaxed,
being burdened with an order to ration 168
extra men. No casualties, Thank God. Kapek
and Deyo have worked wonders in the
kitchen. It is clean, well arranged and sanitary.
Roast beef hash, apple sauce, biscuits and
coffee for which we must wait. A satisfactory
supper. Men are all assembled in our room. I
cannot write. No ink. I will read, something I
have not done since leaving ........ . Sewell
Ford's torchy stories. Three surplus rifles,
which have been issued to E boys, are being
cleaned by them. Candles are lit. Windows
sealed. Guard and OP details for the night are
announced by the Lt. I am free to sleep as
soon as I care to go to bed. Read till 10. Make
bed and turn in with my shoes on. Men talk
and argue. Those that want to sleep are
peeved. Heated discussion. Ward has a box of
Left's hard candies from the States. He passes
195it around. It is good. I take more and promise
everybody a treat when I get my packages.
Hot in bed. Room is as close as a tomb. I take
off shoes, stockings and leggings. Tempted to
remove all my clothing. Of what use is a bed if
I cannot remove my clothing? It is two, almost
three months since I have slept in my
underwear. 4 months ago, I last slept in
pajamas. I would like to risk it. Being tired, I
fall asleep debating the question. Lights are
out. All the men are asleep. The air is so foul
and thick that I cannot sleep. I awake in an
hour. Shout that I want the window open. Not
to be thought of. There is a weight on my
chest. I am too accustomed to tent life to stand
this. Bed is not so comfortable, after all. I
remain hot, roll and toss all night. The book I
found is my pillow. It is too hard. I get rid of
it. No better. Nothing occurs during the night.
A few bursts of machine gun fire. Hear a story
describing action of Rogers and Hussey upon
sighting a German and what Del Duca does
subsequently. My admiration for Del grows.
Lt. out till past twelve. He has had no sleep for
the past two nights and asks to be awakened at
4. He is the hardest worker in the army. Never
complains. Never takes advantage of a minute
in which to rest, or do something for himself.
Modest withal.