Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 28 July 1918.
Nationality: Australian

Text: 

Sun. Jul. 28, 1918
Weather: Raining, Cold
Health: Good
Up at 7:00. I might have slept on, for there is
no breakfast. There is only bread, syrup,
coffee, but the bread is green molded, unfit to
eat; therefore the syrup is useless. My
breakfast consists of a cup of coffee. I wash
and shave. The boys have received some mail
and are reading it. I give to each man what I
have bought for him and they are all pleased.
245One of the men, who came in during the night,
comes in to ask if we have a vacant bunk for
him. Deys can accommodate him. He comes
in with his stuff and tells us all he knows
about France and the trip across. They
travelled differently in every respect than we. I
take the boots up to the Lieutenant in the rain,
thinking surely he is awake. Enter his room,
which is empty. Look into his bedroom and
see a little bundle under a blanket, which I
judge is he, and go back, slipping and sliding
down the hill in the mud. It is cold as the early
winter and bleak with prospects for an all day
rain. Make an attempt to write which is
interrupted by a vicious itching. The cooties in
my shirt are moving about restlessly, probably
looking for a warm spot. I decide to read my
shirt. Go to the door for the purpose and with
the aid of Streetor, I find a plentiful assortment
of sizes, breeds and degrees of plumpness in
"cooties" nests and breeding places. There will
probably be more to-morrow. It is about time I
had a change of underwear and a bath. To the
Lieutenant's shack again. He is not in, and
after waiting a minute, I hear his footsteps on
the boards outside. Bid him good morning and
tell him he is unfortunate and cannot get his
uniform until Thursday, unless he goes to
Nancy for it. As usual, he takes bad news quite
calmly. Glad he has his boots, at any rate.
Give him his money and ask him to give me
the 13 Frs. I spent for his boots. He tells me he
knows I have had no pay this month and
insists that I permit him to lend me money.
Having in mind the many small debts I owe, I
think it best to take 20 Frs. from him and pay
the small debts I owe. Thank him and leave
for the billet to straighten up my accounts
again. Lie down for a nap of an hour, which
proves refreshing in spite of the cold. My feet
are like ice. It is chill and cold. Necessary to
resort to the use of blankets for warmth. When
I awake, I write until time for mess, which is
better than I expected. The story goes that
there will be little to eat for a few days, on
account of new prisoners we have taken at
Chateau Thierry, whom it is necessary to feed,
taking away supplies from the entire division.
We have fine boiled beef, tender and aplenty,
with peas and bread of which I manage to get
a piece that is not moldy, and coffee. After
dinner, there being no formation, I lie in my
bunk to write. My eyes are tired and it is with
difficulty that I finish the page. Then I take
another nap of an hour. Resume writing.
Maloy, Gillece and others have gone to
company headquarters. Ask for mail and
candy if they can get any. Wait anxiously for
their return. A long time since I have had any
candy. While I slept, I had a dream that I was
home and was talking to Papa, who was sure
that peace would be declared by September
the first. Very realistic. Hope it comes to pass.
Am annoyed again by Schlesinger, who wants
me to revise his poetry. It is in worse shape
now than before. Make a suggestion to him,
which if he follows, may improve his work.
Stops raining, but the ground is very muddy
and it is still cold. I must go outside often.
Begin a letter to Leah. It strikes me that I have
been negligent in not writing to her all week
and I am duly repentant, promising myself that
I will write her a long letter. Supper comes.
Expecting to get nothing at all to eat, or next
to nothing. I am surprised to find bean and
beef stew, doughnuts and coffee. I get two
more doughnuts and then more from
Ellenbogen, so on the whole, I have made up
amply for the ration I missed at breakfast.
Resume writing. To-morrow we will receive
no ration at all. We will have to eat our iron
rations and for that purpose we must turn in
our bully beef for cooks to make stew of. Our
men turn in their stuff and are told to give it in
to the sergeant of the kitchen where they eat.
Rather than do that they keep it and eat it
before going to bed. I have a piece of bully
from Schlesinger's can. Doherty comes back
246from ........, in the dark of the forest,
duplicating the feat I accomplished yesterday.
He says it is not worth while taking the trip for
a bar or two of chocolate. Ask for Gillece. He
is somewhere in the woods with Tallon. I
remember I have given him five francs and I
think, therefore, that perhaps he is drunk.
Doherty also tells me there is mail for us being
brought in by Joe Maloy. I remain awake,
writing until he comes in, which is not very
long. He brings with him a bulky envelope
from Lottie and three letters from Leah, but
still no pictures of Cecilie. I wonder why, but
in one of Leah's letters, it is explained that the
pictures are not ready yet, and in another Leah
tells me that she has sent on a pipe and
Cecilie's picture with another of Rachel's
friends who is coming to do canteen work. A
great disappointment, for I have no hope of
ever receiving them through that medium,
having in mind the package that was sent to
me like that, which I should have had not long
after May 30th. Sorry it is too late to get Leah
to change her plans. A letter would not reach
her for a month and it is probably too late to
wire her, for a month and six days at least
would have expired since she wrote of her
intentions. I know that Leah has received my
bouquet of flowers, which I sent to her
through Rachel, who acted like a Major and
never told Leah a word of what I had done
until the day arrived. Leah cries for joy, which
I am glad to hear. She writes me a wonderful
letter about the happy day she spent and the
presents and telephone calls she received from
her friends. In Lottie's letter there is the same
good news, Thank God, and pictures of Hattie,
Lena, Bella, Vincent and our dog Nellie. I did
not know how good it would feel to see the
"mutt" and that it would be possible to feel the
home ties tugging at the sight of a dog. I show
the boys pictures of my pretty sisters, bless
them. They are pronounced pretty by
everybody. Read and look over some of the
letters that Leah sent me since I have been in
France and they appeal to me more than they
did when I first read them. I haven't the heart
to burn them, as my intention was and I decide
to hang on to them as long as I can and carry
as many of them with me when we move as I
can. My gas mask is already loaded to the
brim with letters. Today I am not aware of
having heard a single rifle or big gun fired. No
aeroplanes up owing to the weather. A very
quiet day. Rumours of our next move remain
as they were, with Chateau Thierry and Italy
still favored. Capt. Mills' funeral held in ........
today at 2 PM with the Major, a lieutenant and
eight non-coms in attendance. I am annoyed at
the rain today, more on that account than any
other. I was hoping the sun would shine for
him. Go to sleep amid noise as usual. Joke
telling continues. In spite of having read my
shirt this morning, I scratch all night. Tallon
grits his teeth a lot to-night. Gillece and he
come back without candy after I have gone to
bed. They have run into two Frenchmen who
belong to our camp. They are drunk. One of
them has a pint with him. Gillece and Tallon
have a funny story to tell of their experiences.
They meet Hessler and others looking for
spies.