Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 24 July 1918.
Nationality: Australian

Text:

Wed. Jul. 24, 1918
Weather: Rain, Warm
Health: Good
Up at 7:00. Bread, bacon, coffee. It rains a
little. My blankets are out on the line to air for
the first time in a month. Must take them in.
Make Johnnie Himpler give me a haircut. Get
a pail to sit on, which answers the purpose of a
swivel chair. A bum pair of scissors are
procured from Ellbogen. Get a towel, sit
outside under a tree and the operation begins.
My hair is long and wiry. Himpler has a hard
time cutting it and breathes hard. Must rest to
ease his fingers which grow stiff. Interrupted
by the rain, which patters through the trees.
Must pull them (blankets?) in. Barber shop
moves indoors too. Admiring onlookers gather
around. Tell barber to cut my neck off.
Johnnie is careful and wishes to make a good
job of it. I look at the finished job with the aid
of two mirrors. It pleases me. Wash and talk
with boys for a while. Wait for Lt. Griffiths to
come in. I want to ask him about shoes,
underwear, overcoat, etc. He thinks it best for
me to go to company headquarters and
requisition for what I need. He can give me a
pass to ........ if I wish, which will give me an
opportunity to look up my blanket roll at
either ........ or ........ . Would I like to have
one? I sure would. Suggests that I go to-
morrow, for it looks like more rain. That will
do to perfection. My fondness for Griffiths
increases. Tell the boys my good fortune. Tell
them to make sure to give me orders for
anything they may want. I propose to buy
presents for Leah, baby, Mama and the girls.
Look forward to my excursion with pleasure.
Write in my bunk. Rather uncomfortable.
Schlesinger, I observe, is doing something in
his bunk, with his new pen, which absorbs his
attention. He is writing poetry I find out later.
It is raining again. Continues for an hour or
more. Allen is going to the Company Hdqrs. I
ask him to see if there is any mail for me. He
will. Dinner is ready soon. Mealy uncooked
spaghetti, prunes, coffee, bread. No seconds.
A little rest. Resume writing in my bunk by
candlelight. Schlesinger interrupts me, asking
me to edit his poetry. He has a good idea, but
as far as the poetry is concerned, it is awful. I
cannot make him understand that it cannot be
scanned. It has no feet or rhythm. Only
rhymes. I do not like to discourage him, but I
can ill afford to give my time to him. I have
him make a few corrections, after which he
returns and interrupts again. I try to make him
see, as tactfully as possible, that I have no time
for him. He insists that I give up my work for
him. Boys go to YMCA for me to get crackers
and cigars. Enjoying my vacation properly.
Allen comes back with a letter from Leah, 3
o1d ones from Lottie, one from Mike and one
from Abe Gold, who is in ........ where our
regiment was. I read my letters. Schlesinger
intrudes again. This time I insist that he must
let me read my letters. Surprised to find
Goldie in France. Mike's letter is good to read.
Everybody tells me how pretty my Cecilie is.
Leah has good news and so has Lottie. Thank
God. Still no pictures. That disappoints me. I
look at Schlesinger's poem again. It is
becoming a worse muddle. He makes more
corrections and finally leaves it with me to
238look over at my leisure. Company F has
received an American cook and we have for
supper, bacon, doughnuts and coffee. We
make it a matter of competition among us to
see who can get another doughnut from the
Mess Sgt. I and a few others manage to get
some. By praising the cooks and their output, I
wheedle a doughnut out of them. Look for Lt.
Griffiths. Hear Court Martial proceedings
against me are being squashed. Lt. is at his
supper and must not be disturbed. I will return
later. In about an hour during which I have
been writing, I look for him again. Find him
in. Very courteously gives me a pass for to-
morrow from 7 AM to 9 PM. Advises where
to buy and a chat about next move. Italy and
........ still hot favorites. Tell the boys to get
their orders ready. Work on my version of a
story of a day for Leah. Work on that until
lights are ordered out. Frenchmen come
around to peddle wine. Nobody buys. We have
another story-telling contest. Wade and Howe
are chief entertainers. Days tells one once in a
while. They tell some of the funniest stories I
ever heard. I must laugh. Tallon comes in very
late. Runners protest against the noise again.
No attention paid to them until 12 o'clock,
when our men think it is time to go to sleep.
Boys wiggle, squirm, scratch, itch. Requires
all the will power they can muster to refrain
from scratching. I begin to scratch. Things
crawl over me, bite, keep me from sleeping.
Boards are hard. My back and sides hurt from
lying on them. Blankets and pillow are dusty
and dirty. Smell of must and damp. Fall asleep
after twelve. Nothing but practice machine
gun firing in the quarry heard. Three
aeroplanes up in the morning, draw shell fire.
A few shots from the artillery, a summary of
the day's activity. An air of uncertainty about
everything. No one seems to want to do
anything. Hear three Germans walk into the
lines of the 307th to give themselves up.
Official news. Newspapers tell of great
successes of Americans at Chateau Thierry.
Thousands of prisoners taken, ground gained
and guns captured. Some of the men anxious
to get into action in a lively sector. Officers
are being taken from us and shifted to duty
elsewhere. Schlesinger gives up trying to
intrude on my time. Takes his poem and
confides to Ward. I hear him tell Syrop what a
wonderful critic I am. Tells things I never
knew about myself, while I make believe I do
not hear. Ginsberg is in the Hospital ..........