Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 9 March 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Sat. Mar. 9, 1918
Weather: mild, clear Health: good
Up at 5:30. Make bed. Wash. Reveille. Don’t fall out. Kaplan announces morning inspection of quarters and company for 7:30. Breakfast, cornflakes, hash, coffee. Hurry. All fires in good condition, except fires in Colonel’s quarters. In latrine first. Gaston compliments me for removing ashes, but I tell him in it is dry latrine polish. Work fast to keep gloomy thoughts away. Boys all preparing to go home. In Colonel’s quarters. Chat with Easterly, his orderly and his hostler. They tell stories of the Colonel. Dwell on his brusqueness and profanity. I let fire in kitchen range go out on Easterly’s suggestion. Unless freezing weather sets in, will not rekindle until Sunday night. A fire drill. Do not go out. Capt. and all officers, excepting Lts. Cook and Griffiths go home for weekend. In orderly room and outside, often encounter Lt. Cook, but not a word passes between us. Read newspaper. Make rounds of fires. Sick men are no longer sick, except Lukas, who is in bed. Others either home on pass or lured outside by fine weather. Quite a few visitors in camp. Tempted to telephone Leah if(?) I have time. Take a nap till dinner. Roast beef, potato, cocoa, Take a turn at fires. Coal up well. Have an hour off to read newspaper. Get jam and bread in kitchen. Get a hair cut. Very much dissatisfied with it. Pick up a copy of "Messenger of Sacred Heart", which furnishes most peculiar reading I have ever done. A story, which deliberately fosters Jew hatred, interests me. Make last round of fires. While in orderly room, I offer Haight a cigar, which he refuses, probably considering it a bribe for favor I might ask. Supper, roast, potatoes, cocoa. Riley works in two shifts, one from 6 to 12, other from 12 to 6 in morning. Spend some time instructing how to regulate fires. Smoke a cigar and lie down to read newspaper. Boys bring up phonograph and begin dancing and making noise. Driven downstairs in Mess Hall for quiet. The boys and Griffiths are resting. They have had their dinner in our Mess Hall today. Read and write a letter to Leah, telling her how fearful I have been all day. Make bed and go down to take a bath. Water very hot, due to my own effort. Ready to go to bed at 9:00. Earliest in a long while. Sleep well. One of warmest jobs I have ever had was making fires in 3rd and 4th platoon rooms to remove clinkers. Sweat until I am wet all over. Coal is mixed with sand, which I believe is reason for large amount of clinkers in fires. All day outside of regimental headquarters men are waiting, belongings rolled in blankets, to be transferred. They are ignorant of destination. Arrive in batches of 50 or more from all over camp. I begin day by having a location in latrine with Lasker, who is policing. I have long sought for an opportunity to tell him what I think of him. I do not mind in that teasing of other boys, but I cannot stand it from him. Regimental theatre opens tonight, with Theda Bara film, patty ...and a comedy.
