
Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 1 June 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 


Sat. Jun. 1, 1918
Weather: Fine, warm
Health: Good
Up at 6:00. Assemble for Reveille. Back with
the old gang after a nine days absence from
formation. Breakfast. Bacon, bread, coffee in
small quantity. Many apparent differences
between the men here and in our own
exclusive camp on the farm. I have no orders
other than to prepare for inspection with the
platoon. I go about my work in a half martial
manner, little pleased at the prospect of going
out to drill after such a poor night's rest as I
have had. I will have to break in all over
again. In the midst of preparations, bugler sent
to tell me I am wanted in Orderly Room.
There I am told to report to Batt. Hdqrs. to
work an payroll. As soon as Co. Clerk has
finished, I find there is still considerable work
to be done by him on it. Sit in a cart and begin
a letter to Etta..... I owe her a line and am
ashamed for having make her apologies for
my neglect. It is not going well. My eyes want
to shut in spite of me. When rolls are ready, I
go to Hdqrs. Find Fox, my partner, has just
arrived and is asking instructions from Sgt.
Major. Lt. in charge of supply wishes work
done under his personal supervision. We find
a table to work on. Lt. moves about in camp
by telling us rolls must be finished and ready
for payment by the 3rd, which is Mon. This
means that we will have to work all of today
and tomorrow. No holiday in prospect of
writing letter to Leah or Mama. Fox wants to
quit the job. I say "yes sir" with as much grace
as I can muster. I cannot ascertain just how
much work Lt. wants us to put in on it, but
appears he wants us to take up some of the
duties attended to by Co. Clerks last month.
He takes me for an authority on the subject of
payrolls, which pleases me and acts as a
balance for my hurt feelings on learning that I
will have no holiday. He leaves us to ourselves. My eyes are just as sleepy as ever,
my work is not being done properly. Sheets
are full of erasures. Gas Lt. comes in and
scolds for not working with our masks on. I
have not mine with me, nor has Fox. A respite
to go for them, which will take as long as the
period for wearing them lasts. Stop with Corp.
Haight to point out a few errors in his roll. Go
to billet. No one there. I am hungry. Take
some jam and hard tack. Get my respirator and
report back to Hdqrs. Another half hour sees
me on my way back for lunch. Very little of it.
Bully beef stew, bread, coffee. I am shown no
consideration in spite of detail and must wait
my turn on line. Lie down in grass for a nap
till 1:30. On way to office meet Jacobsen, who
tells me he has a letter from his sister, which
mentions Leah and baby. He cannot find it
after a search through his pockets. I promise to
look him up tonight. Work lazily till time for
another half hour period wearing masks. I hear
that Sgt. Major is cautioned for neglecting to
wear his, so I sling mine to be ready if officer
comes, but shut door and do not wear it, until I
hear footsteps near door. On it goes for 5
minutes. Period over. Work until 5, getting
along quickly. I am further advanced than Fox.
Do sums mentally. They are so simple which
he ponders with paper and pencil. Perhaps I
will have time to write. Supper, cheese, bread,
jam, coffee. Hungry. Write in field leaning
against tree in great discomfort. I am forcing
myself to stay awake. When I have finished, I
continue my letter to Etta but I must give it up,
when darkness overtakes me. I have only
added a few lines to it, which do not please
me. Make my bed with Reilly. It seems a little
softer than yesterday. I cannot find my
overcoat, so I take Leonard's for a pullover.
My object is to fall asleep before Fallace,
Beger, and their gang come in and keep me
from falling asleep by their drunken brawling.
Officers are working an a new personnel of
squads and platoons. There is a probability
that I will be transferred to another platoon,
but it is not definite enough to please me. I
want to get out. Lie down and fall asleep,
almost at once, and enjoy a good night‘s rest.
There has been shelling of some towns and
railroad head, as all week. We can hear it from
here almost as well as from farm. Air activity
nothing to note. Rumors of approaching
movement of company still going the rounds,
with a little mere authority, as coming from
Sgts. A newspaper report of a great victory is
a1so peddled about. From nearer sound of
guns, it has some credence with me. Bland and
Wezerick in hospital. Tallen is in hospital too.
An epidemic of grip apparently.