Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 8 June 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:



Sat. Jun. 8, 1918
Weather: Fine, Warm
Health: Good
On Hike. .... Kilometres to ........
Up at 5:45, Breakfast. Stewed figs, bread,
coffee, marmalade from one of the boys. I save some and all of my bread. Have walked
around and stood on line in my bare feet,
altogether for over an hour. Not much dew on
the ground, but it is excellent for cooling my
tired feet. We must be off at 7:00. Packs
rolled. Tents struck. Policing as usual. With
packs, it is again a case of slicker in, slicker
out, because it looks like rain. Otherwise, off
without much fuss. Sun comes out strong and
hot. Blouses are not worn, but I sweat a great
deal. Road itself very hot and dusty, though
excellent. Walk 30 minute periods, rest 10.
Pack does not bother me at all. I am becoming
used to weight of it. Two pads under shoulder
straps to prevent cutting. Water obtained from
well in courtyard of house opposite campsite
before leaving. When that is gone, we must
obtain fresh supply from water carts. Carts
have water that is so impure, that 3 scoops of
chloride are necessary to purify 100 gals. It is
nasty tasting stuff, which even I, who insist
that boys drink it instead of well water, balk
when it comes to drinking it. More like
medicine than water. Pass through a number
of small villages. For two stretches, I carry an
extra gun. Once Himpler's then Rubin's, not so
much extra work or weight that I can notice,
but it tells on me, so that during third period of
march I have all I can do to carry my own. My
feet are burning as if coals were in my shoes.
Toes and heels hurt. Perhaps it is the heat of
the road. Meet a body of our men coming
from a different direction. All our officers at
the crossroads. Pass two streams, which are
extremely inviting. Near twelve, we enter
......... . Supplies there waiting. A smart little
place, with a market square, two big watering
pools, a large chateau and an imposing church.
Looks like an ideal place for a stop, but looks
are deceiving. No definite arrangements made
for tenting or billeting. We go to edge of
village and beyond into orchard. Take off our
packs and told to stay. Mess will be ready in
three quarters of an hour. Must not meander
off bounds. Officers go for a pow-wow to see
if we can have use of place for pitching tents.
In the meantime I take off my shoes and socks
and look about for water with which to bathe
and cool my feet. An hospitable old woman
gives me some in a leaky basin. An immediate
relief. Soak my feet for half an hour. Men all
over begging for eggs and wine. Everything is
scarce, most of all water. We are not even
permitted to boil the water which is to be had.
Dinner. Boiled, beef, potato, onion, bread, but
nothing to drink. Line juice is promised as
soon as water can be obtained. Word comes
that we can use orchard provided we no not
climb or cut trees. Formed for pitching tents.
Pair up with Rubin. Pitch and arrange our tent
amid cow dung which is most plentiful. Take
off my shoes and begin to write, but fall
asleep. Nap till 3:30. Rubin comes in to write.
I make another attempt to do so. His diary is in
Hebrew. It excites my interest and I make him
read me a page of it. It is a literary gem.
Instead of writing, we converse and discuss
the relative merits of his and my methods of
noting our experiences. A friend comes to take
him away. I resume my writing until mess call
blows. I would relish a good meal. Beef stew,
bread, tea. The tea is made from water which
is so much chlorinated that it drowns the taste
of the tea altogether. I an compelled to quench
my thirst with a glass of beer that tastes like
dishwater. Quite a time getting it. Continue
writing until dark. Receive two letters from
Leah. Good news, Thank God. Disappointed
that I get so few letters. None from Mama and
wonder whether any of my letters have
reached home. No mention made of water to
bathe my feet and for canteen. Draw from well
pump in courtyard of Chateau. An
uninteresting exterior to house, but interior
bespeaks riches, good taste and art. Grounds
well taken care of and ample. A summer house
and another building to be seen. I make an
attempt to walk through park. Lt. comes in. Looks questioningly at me. Ask permission to
promenade. Refused. Make up my mind to
return tomorrow morning. I must go opposite
road for drinking water. Pass kitchen on way.
Inquire of cooks if they have orders to move
tomorrow. They have not, but while I am there
Haight comes to tell them that tomorrow at 9
AM we must be off account of lack of good
water. Water obtained after much trouble is so
heavily dosed that it might as well have been
pure chlorine. Wash and bathe. Return to
chateau to refill bucket for Dougherty from
whom I borrowed it. At crossroads are two
regular army engineers enroute for their camp
on motorcycles. A group around them. Treated
to drink by our boys and to repay tell of their
experiences in France. Tell us our training
schedule will probably be a long one. Go to
bed at 10. It is misty and cold. Do not sleep
well. Worried because there is no opportunity
to write Leah. I would have done so under any
circumstances if there were any chance of
mailing a letter. Out of earshot range of front.
Strange that after so long a time under the
guns we should be going away from them.
Airplanes are only evidence of activity.
Aerodrome within a stone’s throw of us
accounts for that. Up in flocks of thirty or
more. Different type of machine than near
other front and nearly all scout planes.
Conduct of our men is disgraceful. From the
beginning of the hike, where the drinking bout
started, they have been drunk continuously.
Wine is procured against all regulations and in
spite of restrictions placed upon sale by
inhabitants. Irishmen have formed a clique and
have cornered the liquor market. Almost get
into a scrap with woman in estaminet. No
chocolate, cigarettes or sweets of any kind can
be procured. One of our men arrested for
buying champagne. Taken away from him and
drunk by British MP who caught him,
whereupon he is released.