Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 31 July 1918.

Nationality: Australian

Text: 

Wed. Jul. 31, 1918
Weather: Fine, Warm
Health: Good
Up at 7:00. The first thing that is told us this
morning is that two men have been struck by
shrapnel from the bombs that were dropped in
the night. Two horses were also injured. It
appears that the Boche spied the lights of
some engineers who were loading a transport
above H Co. kitchen. Wade gets the news
when he goes up to breakfast. A bomb was
dropped very close to the men who were
working. Gives rise to resentment among us
and we decide that there will be no lights
showing to-night. It is brought to the attention
of the officers and the guard has orders to see
that all lights are out at dark. Breakfast.
Bacon, bread, coffee. Wash, shave, hang out
blankets to air, police, then pull off my shirt to
hunt for cooties. In my OD shirt I find one big
one, but my undershirt is full of cooties of all
sizes. A surprise to me how we get them. Talk
to the boys for a while before I begin to write.
The rumor for the morning is that the 42nd,
which we relieved, is digging trenches behind
the lines. This comes through the medium of a
letter one of the boys has received from a
friend in the 69th. We are still accredited with
251being sent to any place from Alaska to China.
My plans for the morning are to continue
revising my story, which I will send to Leah.
The men are preparing to go to the rifle range
in the afternoon. They go to the YMCA for
cardboard with which to make targets and a
number of them mark bullseyes on them. I
write all morning on my bunk without being
disturbed by anyone. Dinner. Boiled beef,
potatoes, soup, bread. Three planes up this
morning directing artillery fire. They are seen
through the trees. After dinner I have a feeling
that I would like some exercise. The boys have
been playing Cat considerably of late. Think I
would like to join in a game, which at one
time I played fairly well. Wade offers to play
with me. He plays poorly. I have not lost my
proficiency at the game. Play for ten minutes
only when the Sgt. orders us to fall in to go to
the rifle range. We protest against wearing
blouses but as a few men have washed their
OD shirts,
MISSING PAGES
and a few pieces of beef, bread and coffee.
Resume writing, inside, then in the sun, then
in the shade. The boys are tired of seeing me
writing. They josh me unmercifully. Some of
them become insulting. I have difficulty
restraining my anger. Mitchell imitates a
drunk to perfection, so natural that for a time I
think he is drunk. Get some candles from F
Co. kitchen and write by candlelight in my
bunk until the officer of the day and the guards
order all lights out. There are a few lights left
in the woods after ours are out. I can see them
from the door. The boys are boisterous. They
are cheering the mess sergeant, the scouts and
the runners, telling jokes and making a lot of
aimless noise. There is a lull in the noise for a
minute. It seems that we hear an aeroplane. It
is only a wagon going down hill. The gaiety of
the boys shows again. Another lull which
seems to be final. Kelly begins again. We hear
some kind of horn. It is quiet so that we can
listen. Four revolver shots are heard in the
woods. The merriment continues. Then the
horn we heard before sounds again. It is surely
a gas siren. Two shots from a rifle. The men
yell gas. We get our masks ready for instant
use. I adjust mine to alert. Somebody yells,
"everybody out". He is scolded. Some of the
men sleep, not hearing either the sirens or the
noise of the men. A machine gun heard from
the lines. Try to sleep with my mask on my
chest. It is uncomfortable. After an hour, no
further alarms having been sounded, I hang
my mask on the wall again and try to fall
asleep in spite of Tallon who is gnashing his
teeth tonight more than ever. Everybody is
beginning to complain about him now. He
annoys me all night. I do not sleep for a half
hour's stretch at a time, what with Tallon and
the cooties.