Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 17 May 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 


Fri. May 17, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
Up at 6:00. Reveille. Breakfast. Bacon, bread,
coffee. Third platoon for police duty. Pick up
a few papers and tin cans to be put on dump.
Brush up gun. Loaf for a half hour. I would
like to do something, but neither water nor pail
are available. Out to meet members of SOS
class. A short distance down road, front rank
remains on road, rear rank goes into the
woods. We have each a pair of field glasses.
An exercise is arranged to have men on road
do little things from under cover of a hedge,
move about cautiously, etc., which must be
observed by man watching through glasses
from woods and vice versa. Very interesting. I
am on road class. Our cover is a hedge, but
background is a poor one. It is all open. Little
growth behind. Our movements can be
distinctly noted. Other class in woods has an
excellent background to work against, with
little cover in front. They are most effectively
hidden. It is most difficult to discern their
movements. As proved later when notes are
compared, they noted down most of what we
did, while nearly all their movements escaped
our notice. Major comes up while we are
sitting on road, Rather annoyed that we do not
stand up at attention, until he is informed of
the reason. Our company is shooting at a
miniature range on other side of the road, in a
hollow where horses come to water. Noise of
first shots causes them to shy and stampede.
We go from there further along the road into
field where we were yesterday. Given a
lecture, a practical lesson on finding an object
while blindfolded, going by sense of direction
only. I am best in class, almost reaching man
standing quietly in the middle of the field,
whom it is our duty to find. The same thing is
gone through in patrols of 6 men each from
the kneeling position. Not so good at that. It is
very hot. We have our blouses off. Drinking
much water. Men have neglected to fill their
bottles, borrow from each other. Soon all
gone. A race among us, divided into two
teams, to see which section can get gas masks
on in shortest time. Company across road with
OD shirts off doing bayonet work. They are
hot. Back for mess. Mutton boiled, sauce,
potato, bread, coffee. Write. Report for
afternoon work at 1:30. We all go into woods
and are told how to sketch positions. From
where class was in morning we make a sketch
of stretch of road where we were behind
hedge. Do a good job. Finish ahead of others.
Praised by Lieut. with a few exceptions.
Asked If I would like to take up signalling. I
am not anxious. An exercise which trains in
art of coming up behind a man without being
heard. One man in center blindfolded. We all
advance upon him from a distance of 8 yds,
try to touch him. Successful 2 out of 3. Notes
on shooting with and care of our new rifle read
to us by Lieut. Back at 4 by a new course.
Very warm by the time we reach barn. Retreat
soon after upon return. Supper. Belly beef,
hard tack, rice and raisins. A letter from Lottie
in which there are a few lines from Papa, first
he has ever written to me. Write under a tree
in field until 8:30. Shave to prepare for
possible inspection in morning. Walk around
looking for lemon candy to quench thirst. I
have been drinking water all day. Listen to a
few groups of men talking about Fritz. Sit
down on tree stump and join in a discussion
about politics back home. An English scout
plane showing lights flying overhead. Soon a
Fritz machine is heard. Hovers about for a while. A battle begins, outcome not known.
Three big bombs are dropped at one point.
They shake the earth, rock barn, wake sleeping
men. I jump up to see if I can make out
anything going on above. It is too dark to see.
Anti-air guns are trained on him from
everywhere. Firing from streets and all
vantage points with portable guns. A
disturbance created for an hour. Appear to
have driven enemy back. He returns judging
from sound of renewed shelling in air.
Townspeople frightened. Out of doors,
gesticulating and talking. Our men in barnyard
making too much noise to suit men in barn
trying to sleep. A wordy war between the two
factions. Silence and we all go to bed. For the
rest of the night aeroplanes patrol in the air.
Firing continues at intervals. Affair impresses
me more as a Fourth of July celebration than
anything else. I am anxious to see it from
point where damage was done for effect it
would have on me. Similarly unmoved in
afternoon while sketching. Company firing
from behind road which we are sketching, also
our practicing on range in woods. Officers fear
for our safety. Afraid we will be hit by stray
shots. Rattle of bullets sound in our ears while
we go on with our work, paying no attention
to noise. We are perhaps under conditions
nearer to being under fire than ever before.
Badly bitten by insects in woods. Matches
remain very scarce. We have permission in
afternoon to go out without blouses. Also
remove ammunition from belt to lighten load.
Keep twenty rounds in case of emergency. Not
noticed by Lieut. Severe punishment, penalty
if caught.