Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 2 May 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Thu. May 2, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good, leg sore
Up at 6:00. Reveille. Wash. Go up for
breakfast. Last platoon in line. Good portion
of oatmeal, lots of bread and butter, coffee.
Enabled to save a piece of bread. Promises of
a fair day at last. Sun has not been seen since
last Saturday noon. I notice that after a few
day's quiet at the front clouds seem to lift until
heavy firing begins again. Up for drill with
packs, same as yesterday. From now on they
will be worn at all drill formations. An hour
spent in forming companies and setting
helmets on packs to conform to new
regulations. To drill field past prison camp.
Stop on road to work at manual. Rest while
patrols of picked men are sent out from both
ends of company to surround area and meet at
target butts. Corporal and second in command taken out on patrol, leaving me in charge of
squad. Remainder of company marched up to
meet patrol. Company formed. Up
embankment to drill field. Fall out for 25
minutes, which raises Captain back into good
graces of men. Lie down on grass, dry for the
first time in three days. Sun comes out at last.
Remains out for rest of day. Instructors in gas
mask drill come along. Take entire company
in hand, after which machine gun squads go
out for instruction. Our corporal, out last
night, not feeling well, lays down on his work,
telling stories of war instead. Very interesting
experiences he has had in his four years in the
service . Gives us many valuable pointers on
trench life. Lessons over at 12. Rest while
watching non-coms get bayonet work. Back to
billets at 12:30. After regular mess time when
we get in. Mess is steak, mashed potatoes,
coffee. Too late in line. Steak is all gone. We
get prime piece of fried ham, lots of potatoes
and coffee. I divide my piece of bread among
five men. Barely time to wash our mess tins
before we are called out again. By a short cut
to drill field. Get same gas mask lessons as in
morning, by our officers this time. Colonel
and General paying us a visit. Captain beams
and dances attendance. Superiors in good
humor. Bombing lesson from my corporal
from standing and kneeling positions. Bayonet
work by our Sgts. Back at 4:15. Wait in
courtyard for retreat. Mess. Bully beef, bread,
marmalade, coffee. Clean gun, write, change
clothes, bathe at pump in field, shave, empty
my barracks bag and order its contents. Bathe
my feet. Rub sore leg with camphorated oil,
which I find in my bag. To bed at 10. A
discussion about the war among the boys until
they are hooted to sleep by boys not taking
part. Prospects of peace in near future
discussed by all men about these parts.
English, Americans and French talk about it as
something in progress. A certain bulletin
quoted as saying that Allies have made
overtures. This gives rise to the question of
returning to the States and the method of
demobilizing the National Army. Transport
and food problems considered. Most of the
men would prefer to stay in France for a few
months. I take no part whatever in conference.
For my part I do not think peace is imminent.
The spirit of the war has gripped both sides
with such an unbreakable hold that it will take
more than a year to disengage it. The old story
of our doubts about conscription being
enforced and then our doubts about the
National Army being sent to France. I
consider it by no means uncertain that we will
go further down the line as our state of
training warrants. I will be prepared to go
whenever we are sent. Think it much better to
go forward quickly and have the job done with
if we must go eventually, than to stay about in
idleness for a few months. Clean my gun
thoroughly. Probability of an inspection
tomorrow at first drill formation. I do not
propose to be noted for having a dirty piece as
often happened while at camp. Apparently
nothing of importance going on along the
front. It is comparatively quiet. What few
shots we hear may be practice firing. Corporal
instructing us in machine gun thinks it is firing
of the French mortars within our own camp
area and for want of better authority we accept
his judgment. Some reports very loud
followed by a swish which seems to travel
over the hills and then another report from
behind us, the echo. It travels on and on until
it is lost in the distance. Slight air activity.