Author: Thomas James Richards.
Date: 10th November 1916.
Nationality: Australian.

November 10th Friday. From midnight to 8 a.m. we waited this morning out on the Flers road and never got a case to take in on our ambulance waggon. My boots and socks were wet and as there -4-  was frost about it was a most trying time. I had a whole  lot of clothes on, including a sheep skin vest and a heavy  overcoat. There was a set of very delicate shades in the  sunrise which later appeared like a red ball in amongst the pitiful looking remains of Delville Wood The sun has been splendidly all day and if we get another good day tomorrow the mud will be drying  up and then there will be a chance to move ahead. It will be costly work but better than to remain in our present position with the Germans getting picked and overlooking  positions as well as splendid observation from which they are knocking blazes out of our artillery every day. I will be extremely sorry for the troops who have to hold out in this Somme front over the winter months with bad roads and no billets. A bright cheerful day again spoilt by aeroplanes and their efforts. One of the German 'planes was hit and broken by our anti-aircraft guns this morning. Thousands  of our men saw it smoking then one of its wings broke off  and it fell like a piece of wood. I feel as though I should  apologise for my remarks concerning the inefficiency of our  aircraft guns, but I will delay it a wee bit longer I think.  There are aeroplanes about again to-night with their machine guns rattling away, at what I can’t say.  I have just read Curtin's well written article \No. 14 in the "Daily Mail" . He has a fine clear form of description and makes some remarkable statements. This paper (November 8th) is the first I have seen for weeks now. I notice from a German report that large French ammunition  dump was destroyed. This is only too true, as for hours it  burnt and shells exploded in hundreds. We could both  see and hear them -5-   I received a parcel to-day and I have no idea of  its date, place of origin, or who sent it forward. I  wish this kind person had seen fit to put a note inside,  as there is not even a postmark outside. It contained  a tin of toffee, 1 fruit and 1 preserved ginger. 