Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 3 August 1918.

Nationality: Australian

Text: 

Sat. Aug. 3, 1918
Weather: Clear, Warm, Rains at night
Health: Good
Hike 22 Kilometers to ........
There is no fruit to be had. Many plums but
none are ripe. The fields are yellow with ripe
grain, or grain cut and stacked decorates them.
Here or there an isolated grave of either a
Frenchman or Boche interred where he fell.
There is one in a garden where truck grows all
around it. Behind the church I get some
currants and peas in the pod, after which I get
my pack from against the church wall, where I
have left it, and look for my billet. The Lieut.
directs me to No. 30, which is a huge barn
where fresh hay and chaff is stacked high. The
new mown hay is spread generously on the
floor, where the men who came on without
stopping are all asleep. There is room between
two of them for me to lie down without
removing anything, but my leggings, to permit
of a free circulation of blood in my legs.
Clothes wet from perspiration, but that does
not keep me from sleeping soundly until 12,
when I am awakened to get my mess. Kitchen
as usual is at the end of town, which proves to
be a very small one, very poor and
ramshackle, full of foul smelling manure piles
and incredibly filthy. Little damage,
comparatively, from shells and bombs. Look
again for fruit but find none. Dinner. Cold,
burned roast beef, evaporated potatoes, syrup,
bread, coffee, as much as one wants of it. A lot
left over given to the Frenchmen and children,
who greedily take what is given. Get back to
billets, where there is a lot to do. I must open
my pack to-day to dry the wet things I have in
it. There is a very hot sun shining! Wash my
OD shirt, handkerchiefs, socks. They all dry in
a short time. Wash my feet, shave and look for
cooties and am glad to find none. The Captain
and Major have put into effect an order that
men must wear leggings and blouses. This, to
my mind is ridiculous. After a man has made
such a stiff hike as last night, and is
completely knocked out, he should be
permitted a little latitude in the matter of dress.
I am seen by the Captain without my leggings
and in my undershirt, but he says nothing.
Maloy goes 20 feet from the billets and is
scolded by him. As late as 4 o'clock in the
257afternoon men who were left on the road last
night, still come in. The infirmary which is
directly underneath us is crowded to capacity
all day. There is nothing but beer to be had in
the town. Men are all broke anyhow and it is
the rule to be going around trying to borrow.
Goldsoll went to look for a room and bed
when he came in and unfortunately he hires
one which has been assigned to the Captain.
As a result he is guarding the town all by
himself. Before supper, I make my pack and
get ready to move at a moment's notice. I have
been carrying an extra pair of shoes, very
much worn, only so that I could take ink with
me. To-night I find a new place for the ink, in
my gas mask, so I lose the shoes. Corp. Thurn
and the Lt. have gone over the route of to-
night's march on bicycles and have returned. It
is so free from misleading crossroads that it is
not necessary for the 305th to go ahead and act
as guides. We will march with the column
behind Hdqrs, which is leading. Write until
supper time. Arrive a little ahead of time, but
the scouts manage to persuade the cooks to
feed us early. Beans, hard tack, meat tinned,
coffee. I get little peppers, too. Orders are to
move at 8:15. I write until it is time. The boys
give their little entertainment of songs
composed by Black. Everybody is chipper.
We fall in and march to a point on the road
where we can take the lead when the
companies come up. Black entertains again.
The YMCA man and the Major amused. The
pack is very light. Hike uphill to begin, which
warms us up thoroughly. See a herd of about
200 cattle, the only big herd I have seen. After
the first hill, it is mostly good hard road. Hike
50 minutes. Fall out where we can look down
into the valley and enjoy the scene, three
villages nestling in the valley, golden fields,
orchards and a setting sun. In the distance over
the top of the crest, a flash can be seen
occasionally. We all wonder at the vividness
of it and it does not enter our minds that it is
lightning. Everybody decides it is the flash of
a gun, but question why we hear no report. It
is clouding up from the north. It grows very
dark and going through ........, where there is a
bridge, the rear of our column lags behind. We
must cut down on the pace ahead. Thundering
now. At our second fall out the men get out
their slickers. It lightens from all sides. Begins
to rain. Stops as we march again. I would
rather get wet than wear my slicker, which is
handy on top of my pack, nevertheless. What
looks like buildings in the dark proves to be
trees. Now we run into another shower. It
thunders, lightens and blows a gale. Beginning
with a light rainfall. It grows steadily heavier
as we travel. There are lights to be seen in
what looks like a barracks. We travel towards
them. They are on both sides of the road. But
for them and the flashlights, we would walk
all over ourselves, it is so dark. As it is, we
walk off the road on both sides. It is raining,
so that my left side is as wet as if a bucket of
water is being emptied slowly over me. It runs
down my pack and into my breaches and
leggings, and trickles into my shoes. My face
is being washed. The horses go with difficulty.
Think surely we will halt to take shelter where
the lights show, but we pass them. Buildings
are hospitals and QM stores. Men fall out.
Two of our scouts leave the ranks to get under
a shed and we do not see them any more that
night. Everybody who has a flashlight is using
it, which makes it imperative for safety's sake
to order them put out. Only the officers using
them. I find my cane a great aid in walking. I
use it like a blind man, by tapping the road
directly ahead of me. Keep calling Gillece to
enable us to keep together. We are going fast
in the face of difficulties. I lose my cane and
put the entire detachment out until I find it. A
flash of lightning, so vivid , that it blinds us.
Looking down the road it looks as though we
were walking into the tree tops. My clothes
oozing water. After a while I find it useless to
258fret about it, for it cannot get any worse. We
march on till we outwalk the shower. One
good thing about it is that it has become cool. I
am no longer perspiring. The stars come out
and we see the lightning following the path of
the storm cloud. Fall out for a rest against a
tree which drips water. I am too wet to mind.
Sitting in my helmet, because my bottom is
naked! On our next march, the wind dries my
clothes a little, aided by the heat from my
body. My legs are stiff and my feet are sore on
account of my leggings shrinking. Talking to
Wolfe about printing helps me forget my
discomfort and the time flies. We annoy the
other fellows, because we talk shop. Grow
chill and stiff in the next rest period, which is
a long one to allow the companies behind us to
catch up. We march again and, on the hike, we
sing going through ........ . Cheer the runners,
the Sergeant Major. Kastner and the runners
cheer us according to the new formula. The
roads are drying. It is delightfully cool for
hiking. The stars give enough light to march
by and at a good clip go through ........, singing
and whistling. Plenty of manure piles in the
long winding street and not a house touched
by the Boche. At the last rest, the Major urges
us to do our best, by telling us it is the last lap
we have to go, which partially accounts for the
fast pace. I am sure this town will be our stop
for the night, thinking we go to the end of it,
because it is so big, but we pass out and make
two kilos more to ........ . Part of the road on
this last stretch is dry, as it has not rained in
this vicinity at all. This is remarked upon by
the men. No sooner than said, when it clouds
up over us and begins to rain as we enter the
town, though to our right and left the stars
show. Into the square where we are kept
waiting in the rain while the billeting party is
looked up. The Major goes through the town
calling for McDougall, who has fallen asleep
in his billet. When they are found, the rain
stops. Gradually the men are assigned to
billets. We are given a still bigger barn then
yesterday, in which both runners and scouts
are put away without being noticed. We are in
trouble when we try to get in. The door is
bolted and barred. It was not to be opened
until 4:30. It is 3:25, so we break in. There is
lots of new mown hay, straw and chaff for
bedding. Before we can unroll our packs to get
out candles, the men fall through holes in the
floor. Bunk up with Himpler, fix my things in
order and go downstairs for coffee, which the
Lieutenant announces will be served at 4:00
o'clock at billet 21, which is at the other end of
town. Ten minutes' walk from my quarters. It
is growing light. Coming back with 3 cups of
coffee (some for my comrades), the day
breaks. Against a black velvet background is a
lustrous silver moon, a crescent. Back in
quarters, I open a box of crackers, part of iron
ration, which it is forbidden to eat, and drink
coffee which tastes like a drug. The crackers
will go down in history as having been lost.
Asleep at 4:30. First time my breeches have
been off in a month of nights. Miss my
tobacco pouch and feel its loss keenly,
because it is a gift from Leah. It shows up
miraculously before I go to bed. All night I
have been asking men to roll cigarettes for me.
Rather out of luck.