Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 21 May 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 


Tue. May 21, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
Greeted by a birdie who sings "Daddy,
Daddy, Daddy" as I step out of the
barn door to go to breakfast.
Up at 6:00. Do not appear at Reveille.
Breakfast. Rice, Bread, coffee. Hoping we do
not have to appear at drill formation. We were
not given any instructions for today when we
were dismissed last night. I stick my head out
of alleyway behind billet to see if men are
assembling. Find 2 Companies' representatives
already there. Prepare to go out. Rest of our
men come up. Lt. inquires who can ride a
horse. Picks Himpler from among volunteers.
2nd Lt. leads us off to where we patrolled last
night. Has men who were out go over same
ground again in same manner for purpose of
discovering and correcting tactical errors if
any. Black's patrol criticized for appearing on
sky line in our movement. Lt. seems to be at a
loss about what he shall give us next. Marches
us up embankment, has us do close order drill,
a procedure which arouses men to make
audible complaints. Feel like a high school
boy who is asked to spell cat. Gas mask drill.
Awfully hot in respirators. One complaint
made. Overheard by Lieut. who resents it very
much. Man thinks we are being drilled too
hard and to no purpose after the little sleep we
had. He is given the option of discontinuing
with the class. He stays. Zimmerman, amateur
champ boxer from Ga., new man in place of
Broadhead. He gets into trouble because he
cannot take work seriously. Glad when gas
mask is put away. Go through field of tall
clover, in which our shoes and leggings get
very wet, to our classroom in the woods. We
are all very tired, which by now is so evident
that Lt. permits us to fall out for nearly an
hour. I take a nap. He then gives us an
exercise in patrolling, which we decide to take
advantage of by loafing. I believe Lt. is aware
of our decision too, giving us this work more
to get us out of the way than for any other
reason. Zimmerman's smile causes his
dismissal. Lt. threatens to make a report on his
misconduct. We are sent into the woods where
we lie down into a little group shortly after our
arrival. Lieut. seen approaching by our
lookout, we separate and hide in twos until
time to return. Officer comes up just as
corporal is making up his report and sketching
map. We all lie like the devil about what we
have been doing. Get a rest from our arduous
labors when we come back. Spend a half hour
designating and shooting at targets on road
from concealed positions. Back for Mess.
Boiled beef, rice, coffee, vegetables. No bread
or hardtack. Sleep for three quarters of an
hour. Out without blouses. To English
musketry range for practice with our rifles. Lie
in a peculiar position. Our heads are pointed
downhill. Too much strain on left elbow. Piece
wobbles. Our work is dismal failure. Annoys
young English Lieut. Up slope to take a lesson
from Sgt. in Tommy's method of quick
loading and firing. He has had four yrs. of it.
Too much. A crack shot. A company of Scots
going to hike. Back into billets. Boys have
been paid. I go for mine. Get 61 Frs. Collect
some debts owing me. Mess. Cheese, bully,
jam, coffee, bread. I go to clover field where
we were in forenoon to find some forget-me-
nots which I want to enclose in my letter to
Leah. I hurry back to be in time for show
which we are giving tonight on Gas field. I prepare to shave. My name is called, wanted
by Company Clerk. Slip on a blouse. Wanted
at Batt. Hdqrs. Report to Sgt. Major who
wants instructions about additional work to be
done on payrolls. It is now too late to go to
show. Write. Get a bucket of water. On way,
see Reilly being carried in roaring drunk, by
two men. Many others in same condition.
Brawls at every estaminet. Five or six men in
my platoon are the worse for wear. Reilly is
laid on grass. I shave, bathe my upper body,
feet. Make bed. Undress Reilly after he has
been carried to bed. Sit outside for a last
smoke until it is dark. Helpless men are
brought in. Go to bed. Reilly and the rest are
all puking. My blankets are all full of puke.
Clothes too. Rowdyism. Pulling of blankets
begins. Smell too much also. I go outside on
field with our blankets. Two Tommies come
to warn us not to show lights. They expect
Fritz tonight. Lie down in overcoat, blouse,
one blanket to cover. Cold. Lt. comes at 11 to
stop noise. At 12:30 Fritz comes. Antis and
machine guns drive him off. An exciting
battle. I see and hear well through entirety,
bursting shells, searchlights, roads alive with
men going to points of vantage. Quiet at 2:00.
Driven in by cold at daybreak. Little artillery
action. Much in air. A company of Scots pass
through, back from Palestine.