Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 17 August 1918.

Nationality: Australian

Text: 

Sat. Aug. 17, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Suffering effects of gas
Cpl. Rist comes out of the lines in
safety to start on his way back to the
States on the mission that I was
originally recommended for.
A complaint by the men in the lines that
our own artillery is firing short upon
them. It cannot be ascertained which
battery is to blame.
My throat is sore, my eyes smart, breathing
is difficult. I feel nauseous, very tired and
little inclined to work. In this state of health it
is quite natural that I should feel morbid and
easily worried. No men from either E or F Co.
has shown up to draw rations. Daylight not the
time to get food into the lines unobserved. Lt.
Scott very much worried about something. He
lets me talk to him and contents himself with
answering merely, for about an hour. Capt.
Harrington, who has remained to carry to a
conclusion the mission on which he was sent,
has come back looking for something to eat.
There are canned beans for each company in
boxes upstairs. They get a can which with
bread provides breakfast for 8. The candle is
289put out, the doors opened which makes it more
comfortable in the cellar, because the activities
of shelling ceases. It is a conservative estimate
that there are 2 million flies in the place,
ceaselessly buzzing about and crawling over
the food. Upstairs, where the ration dump is,
there are swarms of thousands of flies on each
loaf of bread or other article that is not canned
or covered. The odor is sickening. The room
in the rear is full of mustard gas, which clings
to the mattress, which is still on the bed and
one's life is in danger if one stays there too
long. No attempt is made to clean any part of
the town. A little chloride of lime is really all
that is necessary. I am anxious to get a bit of
talcum powder or some such thing as an
antidote against the odor. One o'clock and still
no word of either Capt. McMurtry or the Lt. Lt
Scott more dazed and reserved than ever. We
decide that it is a good opportunity to make
inquiries about the new disposition of the men
on the hill and the whereabouts of the officers.
A Boche plane up prevents me from venturing
forth just yet. Wait a while. Instructions from
Lt. Scott to bring back his bag and slicker if no
one is where it was left, or in other words if
the position has been abandoned. I am ready to
go out, traveling without a rifle or anything
that will hamper quick movement. Take with
me two H Co. men, who have survived the gas
attack and who wish to report to Batt. Hdqrs.
and a machine gun man to establish liaison, if
that is possible. Run the entire length of the
village street to the church and then take a
moment's shelter. Note new destruction
wrought in the vicinity by last night's shelling.
Many new shell holes. My companions are
growing anxious about the distance they have
to travel thus, and question if I know the road
well. I am annoyed at their questioning and
order them to follow me. Run across the open
where no advantage can be taken of cover,
then work my way up the hillside among the
trees in a little orchard to the top of the first
terrace where we must cross an open space of
about 15 yds. The little spurts that are
necessary in spots like these are what tire us
so. We lie flat on the ground concealed by the
row of bushes that crown the hillside, listening
to the buzz of an aero motor high up. It is
necessary to scold to procure silence, so that
we can learn what kind of machine is up.
Seems to me like a French plane. After a short
rest we run across the field to the top of the
next terrace, where there is another row of
bushes and trees behind which to take shelter.
We get there just in time to hear the ripping of
a shell about to drop. Fall prone on the bank
maintaining a goodly distance between us. The
shell falls short, somewhere on the road. I do
not turn to look where they strike. We are just
within range of flying fragments. He sends
four over and gives up a bad job having done
no damage other than making holes in the
earth. Assured that he is quiet for the time
being, we make the next and last ascent
bearing to the right to take advantage of cover
offered by trees, which grow half way up the
slope. No sooner seated to rest when on
looking down through the trees on the bank
there is to be seen the dead body of a man with
a pack on his back. He does not show any
evidence of having been badly hurt. Probably
his death largely due to shock. Wedged
between trees, which prevented him from
rolling down into the flat. There is much L Co.
equipment about. 10 yds. more to go to where
we dug in last night, in the little hollow. I
crawl continuously to the place, so that I do
not risk injury to the men entrenched there, by
being observed. No one is to be seen. I look
for the spot where I began to dig. Doherty is
not there. I shout guardedly for the men and
officers without a response. Belts, guns and
packs left behind. All evidences of a very
hurried removal, but no suggestion as to where
they might have gone. I see the little white bag
in which I keep Leah's letters. I am incensed at
290Doherty for having left it behind, after I had
taken the trouble to take with me his water pail
which he had left in town, before I came up.
My mess kit cover, which contains pictures
and papers of value also left by him.
Reconnoiter guardedly for about 10 minutes
but find not a trace of the men who were there
last night. Greatly worried about their safety
and realize the futility of remaining where I
am. I may be seen and fired at again. Look for
the Lt.'s stuff and between myself and the
machine gun man divide, as booty, some
cigarettes and matches, leaving H Co. men to
run the gauntlet of the open fields on their way
to where they had declared it their intention to
go. Make a hurried trip back to town, it being
easy going down the slopes, halting only once
when I hear a plane overhead. Back in the
cellar, the Lt. is still moping, white as a sheet,
lifeless, helpless. A... , one of our scouts
comes to inquire for Griffiths, which makes
the mystery of his disappearance still more
baffling. No one comes with messages or
official business, and presently when Nelson
comes to invite me to stay with them for the
night two doors below. The Lt. goes to the
MG Captain's dugout for company, while I
attend to a message to be sent there a short
while later, at the same time letting Lt. know
that I can be found if wanted, with the scouts,
where I now go. Have a bit of salmon,
buttered bread and water there. It is a much
cleaner place than any other in town, there
being less flies and a bedding of clean straw
on the floor. I lie down, talk and discuss with
the men the probable fate of the Capt. and Lt.
They offer no encouragement whatever. Not
an optimistic thought among them, and I
rapidly work myself into a condition similar to
that of Lt. Scott's, helpless. No one calls for
me. No one stirs out of the place. The general
opinion among the men is that it is best not to
invite work in such dangerous surroundings.
They will coast until sent for. Fritz sends a
few series of shells distributed all over the
countryside. Some come so close to our
dugout that the effect on my nerves is
extremely weakening. They whizz by so near
that their passage fires a rush of hot air into
the cellar. Along about nightfall I have
occasion to go upstairs. I had intended to see if
anything had been heard from the Capt. and
the Lt. On reaching the head of the stairs, there
comes the familiar ripping sound that is so
much to be dreaded, a loud explosion and a
shower of dirt goes into the cellar after me,
almost partaking me in its flight. I lose all
desire to attend to business. Better described
by saying that duties do not exist. The only
thing to do is to lie on my back and wonder
why such a thing as the shell was ever
invented. It gives a man no chance whatsoever
for this life. It comes upon him unawares. He
cannot fight against it. We settle ourselves for
the night. Sleep and strange to say, make no
arrangements whatever to post a gas guard. It
proves unnecessary to be sure but there was a
possibility, which should have been taken into
consideration, that all of us would have fallen
sound asleep. We sleep in fits and starts, there
being always somebody awake. All of us
cough and breathe heavily, complain about
parched throats and smarting eyes, and when
Fritz sends in his usual 12:10 barrage, we are
prepared to adjust our gas masks hurriedly.
Two or three big shells rack the place
considerably, but do not disconcert us for we
feel safe in the knowledge that our hiding
place is strong and proof against shells. Many
shells whizz, which do not explode, leading us
to believe that gas is being sent over. Those of
us who can still smell, sniff loud and long but
discover no trace of gas, so we decide the
wind is in our favor, blowing it away from us.
Gradually we fall asleep and for an hour or so
there is quiet. Another prolonged burst of shell
fire, during which some of the men light
cigarettes. I knock the matches from the hand
291of one man and scold everyone for
carelessness under circumstances where each
man depends for his life on the action of the
other. The men attribute my display of
aggressiveness to the fact that I am sick. For
the rest of the night we are wary of the Hun's
deadly gasses, without a guard.