Author: Thomas James Richards.
Date: 15th March 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

March 15th. Thursday. Morning Parade:-- Platoon drill; and inspection by General Walker. A lecture "Administration" by Col. Foott. Afternoon:-- Lecture "Artillery Co-operation" by General Cox. Physical training. Lewis Gun (mechinism) . 5.30 p.m. Lecture by Col. Stephens  Battalion . . . . . . . x and Formation. After dinner the lecture by officers on "Reconnessance" was not called for by the Colonel. Colonel Foott, said that he wished to have a chat, moreso, than a lecture with the Officers. Administration in all its branches came under his department
other than while the Battalion was in the trenches. He  dealt with his department as though it was to the troops what the invisable working of a clock was to the clock itself.
The word discipline makes you all think of crimes and 
punishments; but really it was the opposite; Good order and 
discipline was arrived at and maintained by being firm and  x Interior? - 20 -
patient. Let the men know clearly what was expected of 
them and see personally that they did it. The word discipline
is from disciple and simply means followers, so that good discipline
is a state of following not being driven. Make the 
men clearly understand that that crime is a disgrace to the 
Battalion and a slur to the uniform they wear. Rub it in so 
clearly that the thought of disgrace would keep them straight.
Pay especial attention to the cook house and the latrines, let
the men see that you are looking after their interests. Be
particular as to the mens clothing, see that it fits them 
properly and see also that they look after their clothes sew 
on buttons etc. Garments came be changed at any time by 
handing in old garments. Salvage cloths and have them exchanged, 
we will always give garment for garment at a moments
notice.
Platoon leaders should know their men and their ability. 
When in action any feat of gallantry should be reported at
once. The details should reach Division in less than one
fortnight. Cleanlyness is next to Godliness (in war time 
next to impossible.)
Salvage on a big scale will go far towards winning the 
war. I think the war will stop from inside poverty. The
German trenches will be fully maned from the sea to Switzerland
when peace is brought about by the econominical difficulties, so 
that by a good system of salvage we are going to strengthen
our position. "Artillery Co-operation" by Gen. Cox. Co-operation of artillery and infantry is essential to success, particularly is this so in attack.
"Artillery is divided into three kinds of Field Guns ^1st.
 Light guns (18 lbs) Mediumn guns (4-7 60 lbs.) Heavy guns
(9-2 and 12 ins.).
Then comes a distinct line of artillery, 2nd. Howitzers, ^ 2nd.
Light 4-5, Mediumn 6-0, Heavys 8 to 9-2 in.
Artillery is used in much the same way as a golf player - 21 -
used his variety of clubs. That is in accordance with the 
lay of the country.
Mortars ^3rd. make the third arm and are also divided into Light,
Mediumn and Heavy classes.
Infantry get mixed up between Guns and Howitzers. There
is really no such thing as high velocity guns, they are; Guns,
Howitzers and Mortars. Guns have only one diving charge
Howitzers have a varying range of charges to alter the angle of 
decent.
The chief shells used are shrapnel and high explosive.
Shrapnel cannot be used of long ranges as there is not a 
sufficiently long enough time fuse to carry the distance.
It must be clearly understood that guns are not rifles
and are subject to gun error. Howitzers in firing reach to
an altitude of 6,000 ft. Aeroplanes have been shot down by 
accident. Gun error with 18 lbs. covers 180 yds. under and 
over the target
4-7 and 50 lb. guns are mostly engaged in counter attack
work on enemy batteries and nothing else.
When officers report shell fire in their area they should 
say the size of shell falling, its direction. If possible the 
time it takes from the report of the gun, state the time that
shelling started, and more important still is to say immediately 
when shelling stops. Because the enemy may have three 
or more batterys that shell the same area; the counter battery
guns will then have to shell these in turn to find out and 
stop the batterys, so that when shelling is stoped we want to 
know so that we can stop our counter batteries and save shells
as well as find out which of the batteries was doing the 
firing. Sound ranging from the report of gun to shells
exploding.
18 lbs. do wire cutting but when the 106 fuse are perfected
and supplied this will be trench mortor work. In wire
cutting with big guns the ground is to much cut about for - 22 -
the rapid advance of infantry; so that the 18 lbs. is now
the best. But the 106 fuse with be able to cut and break
down wire without breaking up the ground in the slightest.
We dont usually fire on Observation Post, nor do they fire on
ours. The idea is that it is better to know where they are
so as to reduce than on some eventful day, then keep blowing
them out and having to find them again.
Light Hows. work on cooking places, ration parties and 
dumps.
12 in. (14,000 lbs. weight) 9-2 (20,000 yards range) are
used for the large dumps and to annoy troops billeted behind.
A creeping barrage of 100 yards in 3 minutes is only
used when the trenches are 200 yds. apart.
Particulars as to the density and length of barrage are
arranged and orders given long before an attack is laid down
to commence, so it is impossible to make any alterations or
changes at the last moment. After the barrage has commenced
you may want it to move more quickly or return to cut wire
that was missed; this, however, cant be done at all, once the
fire commences they will go through with the previous arrangements
and the infantry will have to make the best possible
use of it.
Diagram - see original document - 23 -
15 yds. is given per gun in barrage work. The artillery
accept no responsibility for accidents if the troops are
nearer than 70 yds. to the barrage, as this allowance is made
for gun error. But men have followed our barrages at 30 yds.
At Pozieres for instance.
The moment a creeping barrage is started, a standing
barrage is settled on the first objective and thrown back onto the 2nd. objective as the creeping barrage relieves it. When the 2nd. objective is passed a continueous curtain of five is placed 200 yds. in ahead to keep back reinforcements, and 
continued more or less, for 13 hours to prevent counter attacks.
All the time the above work is going on our counter batteries
are at work on all know gun positions of the enemy.
Heavys:--have been dismantled broken into 3 loads conveved
by tractors 12 miles reerected and have its targets registered
in 12 hours.
Lecture by Col. Stephens on Battalion formation and
admistration.
Diagram - see original document

