Author: Thomas James Richards.
Date: 18th - 19th March 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

March 18th.  Sunday. Morning parade:-- 1½ hours ceremonial drill. Last Sunday we were instructed in taking Post on a Battalion Parade. To-day it was Marching post a saluting base. It is all very instructive and valuable. March 19th.  Monday. Morning parade:-- Company drill. Bayonet fighting. Bombing in squads up a trench. Afternoon parade:-- Reconnissance (report and sketch.) Skirmishing. Lecture "Grenades." 5 o'clock lecture on "Supply" by Major Milne D.S.O. of A.S.C. To-day is my turn as Orderley Officer. I seem to have done my duties to satisfaction, though not with the confidence with comes of knowledge and a soldierly bearing. Company drill controled by Major Harris was a very good lesson to me. The report and sketch of a blank piece of country was a difficult task and seemed to trouble all of the officers. Mine attempt did not please me a bit but the time was very limited and there was no strong features in the area for reconnissance and report. The lecture was a distinct failear that is as far as learning anything new about "Mills grenades." Major Milne seemed to have a nothing in the way of an explaination to make showing that his Supply Department was a marvelous organation and no shortage of ration could on any account be traced home to his part in the business of getting up the rations from the "Base" at Havre. He certainly showed us that there were many difficulties surrounding the feeding of so large a body of men. And explained away some indefinite points. He gave the daily ration per man and told us that we get this ration which is ridiculous. If the ration is not issued it is due to stealing and negligence on the part of the Q.M. Daily Ration. "As it leaves the Base." Meat.  1 lb. fresh meat or 9 ozs. Bully ¾ tin per man. 60% of this ration is forwarded only per day, and made up by Bully, Sardines, et. Bread.  1 lb of bread or ¾ lb. of biscuits. 75% is drawn only 25% biscuits. This is the prevent wastage in the event of large casualities. Bacon.  4 ozs. daily. Cheese.  3  "       " Jam.        3   "   for 6 days, dried fruit one day. Sugar.    3 ozs. Milk         1/12 tin per man. Vegetables. 2 ozs. dried or ½ lb. fresh. Rum.      1/64th. gallon. Butter.    2 ozs.  3 times week. Salt. Pepper. Mustard. Pickles. Maches. Tobacco and cigarettes 2 ozs. weekly. Extra trench rations tea and sugar 2 ozs. soup. Iron rations 1 tin bully tea sugar 1 lb. biscuits. Especial stress was placed on the necessity for preserving iron rations and holding onto them until the last possible moment, particularly now that the lines of communication are being lengthened. 