Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 14 May 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 


Tue. May 14, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
At 10 o'clock call in courtyard that hot coffee
is to be had. Captain wants every man in
company to have some. Men too tired or too
weak to get out of bunks for it. To me it is a
godsend. I get out in a hurry. Get a steaming
cup. A wonderful bracer. Warmth diffuses my
body. Get back. Try to wake some of the men
to go out for coffee. Some awake, all the while
cannot be induced to get out. One man falls
into hole. Coffee soon gone. 75 men have
been piled into place. Body warm, feet cold,
space small, knees cold, cramped. Wrap them
in slicker. Slumber fitfully, wire sticks into me. Madman yells all night. Awake at 6 to
find sun shining. Promise of a beautiful day.
Get right out. Boys who have remained awake
have made tea, as black as coal, strong as
poison. A smoking fire by which I warm my
feet. Boys report that no water is to be had in
town except rain water. No pumps. They
manage to buy eggs -70. Boil them in tea, fry
then. I buy three. Give Reilly one. A pot of
coffee sent up from kitchen. Captain comes
along, looks at our billets, told of madman.
Will not accept place. Looks for another.
Breakfast announced for 9:30. Feeling fine
and cheerful now. Surprised at myself. Clean
gun. Sun shining brightly, warm as toast. Go
out to look about town. Ascertain name of
place. A hundred scattered houses. Rest of
Battalion comes in including our stragglers,
headed by a band of Scotch pipers, the most
beautiful music, coming through the trees, that
I have ever heard. A good thing to hear. Hear
of a detail being wanted. Make ourselves
scarce. Breakfast on time, a piece of bread,
marmalade and more coffee. Throw some of it
away for the first time while in France. Make
up bunk, unroll pack, spread my things on
grass to dry. Go to barn where our extra
b1anket, which has come in, is being given
out. Mine cannot be found. Go back. Lie on
grass in a very hot sun, to write a letter to
Leah or rather to Rachel, asking her to buy a
bouquet of chrysanthemums for Leah on our
wedding anniversary, June 27th. I have
thought of this for a few days now. I may not
be alive on that day and I want her to know
that I thought of her. For her sake I ask God to
spare me. Make six or seven starts, each time
making a mistake. Start over and over. I will
not give up. A new billet found for us, even
better than last place at .......... . Get Reilly's
assistance to move. Question of how to remit
money comes up. I finish letter. Mess. Stew,
lots of bread, coffee at 2:15. Think I will write
a letter to Leah. Write only seven or eight
lines when I am told mail is in for us. Being
distributed. I go to orderly room, arrive as my
name is called. Rubin has been collecting
letters for me. He has a fistful, more coming,
12 in all. One from Lottie. Envy of everyone.
Read them in field back of barn. Mess call.
Continue reading on line and while I eat bully
beef, bread, coffee. All the letters contain the
best of news. Believe I have the best and
bravest little wife in the whole world. She
sends me a flower leaf from the bouquet I sent
to her on the 6th of April. They came to her as
I was leaving camp for parts unknown. Leah
and the baby are in good health, bless them.
Everybody has been so good and kind to them.
I have a big debt to repay. Write under a tree
while a cow munches the grass at my feet,
until 8:00. Make inquiries of the Captain
whom I meet on my way to the orderly room,
how I could get money home. He does not
know. Unusually good humor for him, we
have a little chat about letters. Get my gas
mask and go with Reilly to top of hill to see
star shells being sent up by Fritz. The artillery
is rattling away at a fearful rate. Nothing like
it heard at our old billets and there were times
when I thought it was bad there. Shells
bursting in the air trying to bag German
airplanes. They are heard distinctly but are
hard to see. Told by sound of their motors,
which do not sound as smooth as ours.
Hundreds of airplanes up during the day on
scout duty. In the evening there is machine
gun firing in the air. Telegraph wires singing
with messages going back and forth. Return to
billets. Take a look around my barn for the
first time. A clean, airy place. At both ends
there are so many holes in plaster that walls
look like trellis work. All barns in town are in
same condition. Plaster jarred off by shock of
explosions. Make my bunk with Reilly using
overcoat as pillow. It is hard to sleep with so
much noise. Men start a discussion about what
is going on. Airplanes passing overhead also tend to keep men awake. Find my bed a hard
one, not enough straw for bedding. It is Cold
too. My side soon begins to pain from lying
there. On this account, somewhat restless all
night. Another reason, battle not diminishing
in intensity until well into the morning hours.
Our first full day in new billets passes with the
impression that if so much is still being done
in the war, peace is a long way off.