Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 16 May 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:


Thu. May 16, 1918
Weather: Fair, Hot
Health: Good
Up at 6:00. Reveille. Breakfast. Bacon, bread,
coffee. Wash. Make up pack again. At
formation names of men who go to school are
read. Machine gun class. I expected to be
called but an entirely new class is formed.
Names of men, who ate iron rations given
them for trip here, are taken. Reason advanced
for this is that tinned beef was tainted. More
fuss with inspection. Go to where we first
drilled yesterday, where we spend an hour
doing mostly nothing. Taken to number one
field for practical demonstration of gas. Enter
on field. Boys detect odor of pineapples. Some
said apples. Then their eyes begin to smart
painfully and soon we are all crying. We
cannot see to dress in formation or stack arms.
Gas masks kept slung when we remove packs.
Put on to test out efficiency. Boys grumbling
because it is so hot in there and inspection of
masks is so slowly proceeding. Off to listen to
a lecture on gasses employed by Fritz and how
to detect them, by an English Corporal. Cut
short after five minutes, which angers me.
Always we are interrupted at an interesting
lecture. Led off to center of field for some
unknown purpose. Gathered in a circle waiting
for something to happen. See gas bomb
thrown directly at us. Shouts of "Gas". I hold
my breath, take a look at it as it bursts, note
sound and action. It sprays all around, causing
fresh jets of flame as the air acts on it. Adjust mask in good shape, deliberately but quickly.
Told to watch hair and clothes or they may be
burnt. I had hopped out of the way of sparks
while watching bomb fume. Men next to me
are burned on legs after acid eats through
leggings and trousers. Two men almost have
their blouses burned off their backs. Others
burned on hands. Quite a few accidents.
Masks removed, formed columns of squares,
given sq. right. I see Tommy bursting another
bomb. Wait for cloud to come. Quick work
getting into mask. Better work by all this time.
Over. Company herded together. Gas in air
and on ground is stirred up so that we cry
again and cannot be formed into any kind of
shape. Move like a mob to our packs. March
off as another company waits to get their dose.
Back to billets. Capt. waylays me. Fall out of
column. Tells me I am to go to SOS school.
To put away my equipment and report at once.
Have a bit of tack. Go to the orderly room.
None but clerk about. He has no orders for me.
Wait. Read Leah's letter of the third over
again. Hang around, wishing I had materials
for writing a letter with me. Capt. and 1st Sgt.
come, find a job for me with another man to
police near storerooms. I manage to get two
big hunks of cheese to break the monotony of
job. Other fellow does most of the work until
mess. Beef stew, bread and coffee. CO
happens along. Tells me to report to Company
clerk at 1:30. Outside until scolded by Sgt. for
not getting up. Assigned to school with 5 men
from this company. March to Hdqrs. to meet
men from other Cos. Taken by Lt. to a field
where we get our first lesson in looking
through a telescope, compass, binoculars, how
to use and care for them. No labour at all. A
good school. Lie in grass. Ask questions of
our Lt. who has come up to take charge. I
want to make an impression. I like this work.
Dismissed at 4. Back under our Corporal. Rest
till retreat. Supper. Cheese, jam, coffee. Ask
Reilly to accompany me to ........ immediately
after supper. He consents. Dry mess tins. Start
at 6:10, hat in hand. Walk down the road at a
slow pace to keep cool. Talk of poverty of
France and opulence of US. Watch planes and
observation balloons. Comment on landscapes
of countryside as we pass them. Go to the bath
house, turn to the left and walk for an hour and
1/4 along a hard macadam road, till I find
myself very tired. Meet many officers on road
including our Brig. Gen. whom I salute with
my hat off. Just before getting to town, we fall
in with some friends of Reilly. Beg a match.
They are very scarce. A big town. Everything
to be had. Railroad station at which a company
of Tommies comes in fully equipped to be
billeted. Go to canteen. Disappointed to find I
cannot get money order. A store Tommy
breaks the news to me. Tells me to try civilian
post office. I find it closed at 7. Determined to
get one. Find Reilly, who has gone for a glass
of stout. Find a Tommy there who knows
where the field PO is. He gulps down his stout
to direct me and swears at me when I say
"thank you". He must have expected a tip.
Postmaster is not doing business. Does not
give MOs for states. Civilian Post Office only,
or perhaps town Mayor. Have a drink with
Reilly. Beer. Two of our men, anxious to go,
give us half a bottle of wine. Leave. Go to
town Mayor. Not in and does not deal in
Money Orders. Try to buy matches. None in
town. Buy chocolate. See jewelry stores which
I would like to visit. Toys and souvenirs I
would like to send to Leah and Cecilie. Pretty
girls, grisettes. Out of town, meet Canadians
to ask direction. we are undecided at
crossroads. Take their advice. It proves to be
wrong. Cut across fields of growing crops to
right road. Meet Harry Schneider. Talk of last
summer at Edgemere and boys. Home at 10.
Sleep well. Very tired. Get a blank check from
Harry, which may help me out of my
difficulty. Tell Reilly my troubles in the
course of my fight for exemption. No action of  any kind at the front, that can be heard by us.
A letter from Leah written on the 6th,
transferred to the company from Camp. I am
sorry that I have started drinking again while
away from her.