
Author: Thomas James Richards. 
Date: 1st November 1914.
Nationality: Australian.

Sunday November 1st 1914  At 6 a.m. the flagship "Orvieto" was seen to be under weigh, other transport were also animated with preparation and as the flagship picked out a course through the centre of the 35 waiting vessels she was followed in line by first one and another until our turn came to take up the procession at 600 yd. intervals We lay 17th. and every man on the ship stood at attention as we passed several of our own transports and the 10 waiting N Zealanders. The Maorilanders gave us a haka and many rounds of cheers as we passed quickly by, we, under instructions, had to remain at "attention" and not utter a sound in acknowledgement 
of to our Southern comrades greetings. It was a mighty solumn procession, not a ripple disturbed the ocean, or wind the stillness; even the dull, sulkin hued surroundings landscape seemed more disquieting & displeased even made the rays of lovely sunshine which even the bright sunbeams and the clear blue sky did nothing to clear up the doleful scene. The granite rock formations and islands that shelter St. George's Sound showed up many fantastical, weird shapes, but they did not attempt to break the silence of the this inspiring departure.

35 transports and a convey (which we have only seen 4 of) all running in single file and not a murmur not a gun shot or whistle, no, not even a bugle call, the low sounding trumpet was used to bring us to "attention', "Attention" ment every man standing with head erect and hands down to the sides, the men leaning against the rails had to stand clear, and when the N. Zealanders cheered us it was indeed trying to remain still. There were a few light craft about, in one a woman continued to wave her handkerchief enthusiastically to give us encouragement on our voyage of legalised murder The whole business seems almost unbelievable. 35 ships laden with men and weapons, some 30,000. in number, and including
some of the countrys very best men and most valuable valuable assets There is something wrong with the world. This is how we sailed out from Albany, in mournful procession, and for a destination unknown, and enshoured enshrouded in mystery. making a course Westerly. It was 6 o'clock when the
"Orveito" first moved off and about 8 a.m. the last vessel was also under weigh. Church service was held at 11.30 when the Chaplain tried to justify the Allay's position and asked God for protection and deliverance. The irony of it all. What hypocisity. Surely this great God, if he has the power to influence the victory in any particular, would also have had the power to have prevented it in the very first and before lives were sacrificed. Lives as valuable and as necessity to the very living of many families as God himself ever hoped to save when he allowed himself to be crucified. It seems to be a difference (present war) that man alone can settle, and might take precedence over right. We have been anchored just outside the entrance to Albany for 6 long days & never saw a sign of the town until it appeared on the side of a hill for some minutes only as we took the outward passage. We are now 8 hours out from Albany and traveling slowly in three files, with the "Euripides" on the right flank "Orvieto" in the centre and the Wiltshire on the left As far as we can see there are three ships of war, one on each side and one leading, their identie identity is unknown at present, to the mass any rate. The day has been showery and the decks quite miserable It is a misty kind of night and very little of the other boats can be seen though it makes an impressive sight in the daylight. We are not running with masked lights and should soon be off Cape Leeuwin. I am getting quite a book worm, and play cards to break the monoteny, solo whist.  