Author: Ernest L Muzzall

Date: 11 February 1918

Text:

On February 11, 1918, I was accepted for enlistment at Everett, Washington
in the Veterinary Corps, United Sates Army and sent to Seattle for further
examinations and to take my oath. Several miles from Everett the train was held
up by a landslide, necessitating a round-about course to reach Seattle, where we
arrived at 11:30 p.m., much to the discomfort of the Recruiting Service man who
led us forthwith to the Great Northern Hotel to spend the night.
The following morning we were taken to the recruiting office where we
received our first lesson in the waiting game, for we waited from 8 a.m. until 2
p.m. for our examinations. Finally we were led to the slaughter. An old and gruff
major of medics, who appeared to have been recalled from retirement, put us
through all sorts of stunts during the rest of the afternoon. We were then
transported to Fort Lawton on the north side of Seattle. We were led to a pile of
iron beds, mattresses and blankets by a “veteran” of six weeks service who
assigned us to our quarters and instructed us in the art of Army bed making, the
misery of reveille and policing quarters in the morning. He left us in a cloud of
gloom and predicting dire misfortune for us on the morrow.
Ah, it was cold that night for Washington, so we shut all the windows in
order to keep warm, but that uncompromising and heartless disciplinarian, the
Officer of the Day, came around about 10 p.m. and opened all the windows wide
exposing us to the wintry blasts straight off Mount Olympus. We tenderfeet,
straight from home and mother and all such comforts had nothing better to do but
pile all our clothing on top of our blankets and finished off with putting on our socks. Even so we answered reveille in the morning with much chattering of teeth
and shaking of limbs.
After breakfast about a hundred of us were given our final physical
examinations and sworn into the service of the U. S. Army. We were also given
the proverbial “shot in the arm” and vaccinated, to the accompaniment some
complaint and, later, swollen arms. This was my introduction to the world of K. P.
and fatigue duty. Since we had been issued no uniforms of any kind we wore the
best clothing we had when we first arrived. I waited on table, carried coal,
scrubbed many huge pots and pans, floors and windows, peeled potatoes, packed
supplies into the kitchen and did the hundred and one other menial tasks demanded
of the K. P. I never dreamed that so many different duties could be crowded into
one short day and I was exceedingly thankful when the last dish was washed and
put away and I could at last go to bed.
The next day we learned some of the school of the soldier – standing at
attention, whom and what to salute, how to do an about face without falling over
oneself. The afternoon was spent in learning that pointed so-called English
walking shoes were never intended for marching. This kind of activity was fairly
representative of my first three weeks in the Army except that standing guard
became a part of the routine when after ten days we were issued uniforms. We
then, one day, were given two more shots to complete the inoculations.
During this time I met Paul T. Wilson, a Yakima boy of my own age who
was to become my best friend in the service. Near the end of the third week Paul
and I received our orders to entrain for Fort Riley, Kansas, the Army’s largest
remount depot and now being used as a training post for the Medical Officers
Training Camp. We boarded the train in the evening with a feeling of gratitude
that we were at last on the way to our training station. Little did we know of the
bitter weather we were to experience at Riley. We had a few hours layover at
Portland and later at Denver and enjoyed ourselves immensely looking over these
two cities neither of us had seen before.