Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 17 July 1918.

Nationality: Australian

Text:

Wed. Jul. 17, 1918
Weather: Fair, Hot
Health: Good
Some damn fool, who hangs around Hdqrs.
and thinks I eat with the plebes at the company
kitchen, wakes me at 5:10, telling me I will
miss my mess if I don't get up. I dress and fuss
around in the kitchen for an hour before the
officers have had their breakfast. The Captain
is late and must be served separately. We have
pancakes galore, syrup, bread and jam and real
coffee. Yesterday's good eating has fixed me
up in great shape. I feel fine. Begin to think it
is a mistake on my part to imagine that the
army diet is sufficient. Wash dishes and
sweep, get wood and do chores, after which I
help the cook make rhubarb pie for dinner.
The news that there will be pie spreads rapidly
and everybody has a question to ask the cook,
and some come in to look for somebody,
whom they know cannot be found in the
kitchen, all in the hope of getting pie. The
juice from the rhubarb we put in a bowl to
cool, and all morning we have a cooling
summer drink. The Captain and all our visitors
have some. Sgt. has had no breakfast. We
make him some, which gives me more work
washing dishes. Peel potatoes for a half hour,
which is the finish of the morning's work. I
decide to take a nap, first washing my
undershirt, which will dry rapidly in the hot
sun. I would like to take a bath this afternoon
at the spring. Lie down on my bed. Try to
sleep. Discover that I am wide awake. It is
very hot. The general opinion is that to-day is
the hottest day of the year. The flies bother
me. Hundreds of them walking over my face
and head constantly. I must get up to put a
towel over my head. Aeroplanes overhead can
be seen from my window, where I lie. Fritz is
again shelling the road, which is closed to
traffic. I get no sleep but a fairly good rest
until 11:30. Throndsen calls me to help him
with the water for the Captain's bath. That
business annoys me terribly, but since it is the
only disagreeable detail of a day's work, I do
not complain. I go back to bed for a few
minutes, until the officers are ready for mess.
The Captain has no time to eat. He is called
225away to attend to the moving back of two
platoons and the relocation of Hdqrs. Dugout.
After officers are satisfied, we have bacon,
lyonnaise potatoes, carrots and peas, lettuce
salad, rhubarb pie, bread and jam, tea 2 cups.
Quite a feed for a private. Throndsen helps
with the dishes. We are done with our work
quickly. I have time off which is spent in
writing. Go to my room, remove my shoes and
leggings and sit in bed at work on my story. It
is interesting work. I have decided to elaborate
on it to give Leah as much pleasure as
possible. Ludwig, company clerk of this
organization, gives me an idea, which is an
excellent one. In the garden are some red,
white, and blue flowers. He has pressed them
in a book and pasted them on a card to send
home. I must do likewise. For a long time I
have wanted to send home a flower and now I
have found a way, but I am angry with myself
for having to copy. I wish I could do
something original. Leah will be immensely
pleased with it, I know. My undershirt is dry,
so I wash my OD shirt. I write for two hours
in my room, seated on my bed. The Captain
sees me a number of times, as he passes along
the hall. Later in the day he asks Ludwig if I
am needed. He answers "yes". The flies bother
me a great deal while I work. They drive me to
give up my writing and I find myself with a
half hour's time on my hands, which I cannot
give a good account of. Supper is delayed
again by the Captain. He is very busy. Shuler
picks currants for to-morrow‘s pie. When the
Captain comes in, he brings with him a mess
kit full, which he himself has picked. That
man certainly likes to eat well. Supper is hash,
potatoes, stewed corn, bread, coffee, jam. I am
growing fat under the treatment I am
receiving. A visible change has taken place in
me since yesterday. Wash the dishes and with
the help of Throndsen, who dries them, we are
done by 8:30. Wash myself at the pump. It is
good, on a day as hot as today, especially. My
OD shirt is dry enough to put on. I dress and
go to Scout Headquarters for my tent poles
and pins which I have left behind. Meet
Archer whom I ask about Sgt. Stewart's
condition. No word about him has been
received. Renny is still there having asked to
be permitted to remain. He is himself again,
having completely forgotten about the incident
of the other day, from which I judge that
Stewart is mending nicely. Archer has some
aeroplane photographs, something which I
have been looking for, for a long time. In my
opinion, if I can get them home, they would be
the best possible souvenir. I would like one for
myself. He tells me there is a stack of them
downstairs in the cellar of the building and
without further parley goes to get some of
them for me. I am most grateful. He hands me
more than a dozen of them. I stay to chat with
him for a few minutes, going back to my
quarters at once. Then I pick a red and white
rose and some blue flowers, putting them in a
book to press. I sleep on it, using it for a
pillow. Light my candle, shut the window,
take off my shoes and leggings and prepare to
write. I give Ludwig a few of the pictures in
return for the good idea he gave me in
reference to the flowers. I get a bar of
chocolate, the regular issue from the cook.
Lying on my belly, I finish my story but think
to add to it by putting another page or two at
the beginning, describing my eating, etc. It is
growing late, hot and stuffy. I write a little
while longer, blow out my candle and go to
Sleep. With the windows open, it is
delightfully cool. There is a fine breeze
blowing, which draws through the building
and slams doors and windows shut. I am a
little bit worried about events to-night.
Everybody is either moving back or has
already moved out of the town, as if a forward
movement by the Germans is expected.
Company is occupying a new line. Some 1st
Battalion men come up in advance, which
226dispels a rumor that the regiment was going to
Italy. I hear the men from our company are
drilling at ........ instead of resting. In the
morning I reread Leah's last letters. No
activity of any kind to-day. Only a few
aeroplanes up, and a few stray small arms
shots fired. What with the meals and the quiet,
war is to make life easy......... Patrol of 3rd
Battalion Scouts out on patrol come in without
having encountered anything worthy of note.
No accident or incident until they are in
quarters when Bennett discharges his gun into
the wall.