Author: Thomas James Richards.
Date: 15th November 1916.
Nationality: Australian.

November 15th.  Wednesday. It was more than a surprise to get out of the waggon this morning and view the surroundings. More than a surprise, yes; it was almost startling to see around us whole lines of big healthy trees towering 60 feet and more into the air, and those devoid of foliage were without a missing limb or branch, indeed trees intact and commanded by Winter. Old Winter has had his sway here but up ahead where we have been living for only 16 days, but living closely and keenly to the surroundings, made me forget all else in the whole world. For was this not our world, our world to live hour by hour and look ahead not for a space of minutes? German shells forbade anything of the kind, and in living those 16 days amongst desolation with not a tree out of thousands but what was mangled and broken, nor was there a blade of grass for miles and miles around. Therefore to suddenly wake up after a night's journey of a few short miles and see unharmed and full limbed trees towering - 13 -
overhead and around with patches of short green grass under foot and away as far as the mist allowed my vision to penetrate, was indeed a grand and unusual sight. Safely back again from the firing line midst natures own effects. German and British shell fire has robbed hoary old Winter of his labour. He has been frustrated and baulked by the mad raving and the chemical compounds of man. All day until 2 o'clock we were on the way to the rest station and our present camp at Buire. There is something light-hearted and exhilarating about coming away from the firing line. Something of a thankfulness, something of a charm, of glory and achievement. I drew £3-4-6 at the pay office and had my first glance at our new Colonel Williams who has taken the place of a very good men, Colonel Shaw, and I hope he will make a success of it and keep the spirit of the men intact by not allowing or insisting upon the foolish ceremonial duties that every Australian abhors and which made the men disheartened and careless in their work. The Germans have been dropping bombs around this spot regularly of late. One night a bomb killed 6 and wounded 20 men mostly patients. A remarkable thing also was the fact that one morning two Germans were seen walking carelessly about here, and later came and gave themselves up. It appears that their machine had engine trouble and they came down and gave themselves up.