Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 1 May 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 

Wednesday May 1, 1918
Weather: Cloudy, Cold
Health: Good, Leg a trifle better
Up at 5:45. Reveille. First platoon on line for
breakfast. Good bacon, bread, coffee. Third
platoon on police duty. Our squad detailed to
regimental headquarters. Pleased at that
because orders for drill are to roll short packs
containing one blanket, condiments and bacon
can. Helmet and mask also. Delighted with
prospects of a day's freedom from fatiguing
drill. Get our overcoats on, start off up road,
intercepted by 1st Sgt. Must return, roll packs
and fall out with company. Regimental order
to witness an exhibition of some kind.
Crestfallen lot. Promise of easy task in
afternoon. Packs weigh as much almost as
when full. Come to conclusion that it must be
ammunition which is so burdensome.
Company hikes off through village, Colonel
with us, mounted. Reprimands Acting Major
Whitehouse for tardiness. Maintain a good
pace along worst road to vicinity. It is main
road through village used by heavy trucks.
Perspire freely. March to hollow just below
village where exhibition was witnessed last
week. Form in square, entire battalion.
Colonel shouts down from road, orders to
move to field above road on other side.
Manage to get there with an effort. Stack
arms, unsling equipment. Form around field in
square formation. Same platoon as last week
to show English drill discipline. Tedious
morning inspection gone through, close order
work, sentry drill, necessary drill. Marching
good and bad, organized singing. Bayonet
work. Having become warm and wet from
exertion of marching, it is trying to stand still
in cold damp wind. Move about whenever
possible. Run. Slap each other on back, cut
capers. Colonel immensely pleased with work
of Englishmen. Compliments Lieutenant quite
heartily on work of his platoon. To our mind
while they have a better system, our old fluid
platoon would drill better than they. Bayonet
work far better than any we have ever done.
Singing, while not a martial accomplishment,
excellent, catchy airs. Over at 11. In harness
again for a long hike to rifle range, where our
squad gets instruction in Lewis gun. Rest of
company with bayonet. Company formed for
return to billets at 11:30. Relieve ourselves of
equipment and go up with mess kits for
formation. Payroll to be signed. Runs
alphabetically giving me an opportunity to eat early. Beef stew, hard tack, coffee. Second
helping. Just room for more. Some men, last in
alphabet, must go without dinner to be on time
for another battalion formation at 1:15. Our
part of 3rd platoon having extra distance to
travel comes up to find company gone. Make
inquiries about direction they took. Follow and
make up rear of Company H to end of village
and up road to hill behind. Stack arms and
leave equipment in road. File into meadow
where there is an auto and a number of
English officers and one Scotchman. After a
few preliminary remarks, the latter, a Capt. of
Gordon Highlanders, makes an appeal to us to
acquire the spirit of the bayonet. Quick
thinking, and with charming animation he tells
us how and why and wherefor of bayonet. Yet
in spite of its brilliancy his talk arouses in me
only resentment that such a cruel killing
instrument as the bayonet is used in war. He
talks for an hour and a half including practical
demonstration with welterweight champion of
England assisting. A delightful view of
villages below from our point of observation.
March to drill field off main country road
where our company goes over French course
for benefit of an English officer and 2 Lt.
Cols. of our army. If our men fight the way
they worked the last fifteen minutes we will
go west very soon. Complaint from all sides
about how little consideration Captain has for
his men. Not content with what has already
been done, on way back to billets we go in
patrol formation. I am one of connecting files.
As I pass along road outside of English camp,
our Colonel and two English officers of high
rank pass. I salute promptly. An English lance
corporal inside camp enclosure standing with
hands in pockets looking at aeroplane in sky,
curvetting, does not notice party. He is called
to attention by his countrymen officers who
rein up their horses giving him a severe
reprimand, taking his name, swearing at him
for his breach of courtesy. Back at 4:30. Wait
in courtyard for retreat at 5:00. Back with
equipment. Came up for supper which is held
up for an hour, owing to lack of bread. When
rations finally appear, English will not give us
bread without order. Asked wait or take our
bread ration in morning, which we decide to
do, getting only bully beef, a slice of cheese, a
spoonful of marmalade and coffee. Wash.
Write for an hour. Go to village in search of
chocolate to fill void in stomach. Find none.
Come back and go to bed. Sleep well. No
evidence of activity from front all day. Very
quiet. Aeroplanes up only on practice flights.
A few fly over drill field at morning
exhibition, going slowly and at low altitude to
see what is going on. Note at Englishman's
exhibition drill that if a man has any trouble
with equipment or commits an error, he
immediately steps out of ranks and goes
through work correctly in full view of
company. They are quite honest about it.