Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 16 March 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Sat. Mar. 16, 1918
Weather: mild, clear Health: good
Up at 5:30. Make bed, wash. Reveille, breakfast. Frankfurters, cornflakes, coffee. Police work, clean and shine shoes. Brush gun. Read and lounge about until time for inspection. No display of equipment this week. Just as in everything else, laxity in smaller matters is very apparent. Larger matters of equipping regiment and company occupy attention of command. Inspection promptly at 7:00. OK. Outside for company inspection. Lieut. Cook inspecting rifles. He finds fault with my gun. Cosmoline in trigger guard. Sgt. comes. Takes my name. Capt. comes along and takes trouble to straighten me up. First time apparently that my low left shoulder is noticed. Quite cold standing at attention. Off duty for day. Read. Take a nap. Read newspaper. Restless. I am thinking of home. Look for a pass. Situation not favorable. Reports from Goldsoll are that passes are scarce. Get newspaper. Read in bunk. Loaf about looking for something to do. Down to Mess Hall, where boys on work squad are busy stencilling all equipment “Co. E308thN.Y.”Chat.GotoKofCHallto telephone Leah. Do not remember new telephone number. Have difficulty in getting connection. Borrow 25¢ from Moss – can get no change at stamp counter. Cheered by conversation with Leah and sound of her voice. Talk for some time about business. Back in quarters in time to be last on hand for dinner. Roast beef, rare and tough, potato, horseradish sauce, tea matzoths, jelly. Pimpl good to me. Upstairs. Lie down to read. Poker game in progress. Desin seizes me to play for an hour or so. Lose as usual, but not much. Game breaks up at 2:00. Go downstairs and relieve Thompson, who is die-pencilling inscriptions on identification tags. Work an hour steadily without tiring. Quickly, do two to one of other boys. Have my belt, slicker, blankets stencilled. Upset him. Take a nap until supper time. Almost near. Play poker again with other boys. Stop for supper. Resume play with different set of boys again. A package containing underwear, and a picture from Leah. Lieut. Griffiths orders everybody out to take field kitchen equipment from orderly room hall to supply warehouse. Field ovens, two, very heavy. Offer suggestions as to best way to carry. Won’t work, too heavy. Cart both over in wheel barrow. Back to bunk in a half hour. Make up bunk. Start playing again and remain upstairs until lights out. Resume play, in Mess Hall. Boys have come in from theatre and many men join game. A lot of money changing hands. The usual number of arguments. Nearly 11 o’clock. Some sporting person turns out lights. Turns on again, out again. We draw to play by match light. Prevail upon Whess upstairs to have lights turned on until taps. Sojourn to latrine. Wet and damp concrete floor. Continue to play only because I am losing money. Sgt. Whess is in game to wager for strong drink that he gets at barber shop and takes a bottle half full of bay rum. Drinks it all. Little at a time. A degenerate act. Features have changed and at 2 a.m. I quit play. Wash up and get a steak sandwich and tea in kitchen. Go to bed. Sleep well.
