Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 9 July 1918.

Nationality: Australian

Text:


Tue. Jul. 9, 1918
Weather: Cloudy, Warm
Health: Poor
Up at 7:00. Very much determined not to
appear on the work squad, no matter what the
cost to me. Stomach feeling better and not
wanting much breakfast, I make myself a few
pieces of toast and have a cup of coffee. Wash
and go upstairs to read. I have no intention of
reporting to Hdqrs. of company which holds
CA 5. Pottering about upstairs, making my
bed and putting things in order, when I am
told I am wanted by someone below. I know
who it is and mutter a curse under my breath.
Sgt. Hamond. He wants me. I tell him I will
report sick and will see in the meantime what
the Lt. has done to get me off. That suits him.
He is reasonable. All he wants me to do is go
with him to Hdqrs. He leaves on a bicycle and
after I have gone upstairs for my mask and
cap, I follow. Come up with the work squad
and Sgt. at Boyau entrance near Capt.'s
quarters. Sgt. suggests that I talk to Acting
Capt. I do so. He is in dugout. Not the Lt. I
had in mind, but after questioning him as
politely as I can, I see that I have been
laboring under a false impression. I begin by
211telling him I would like to report sick, then
explain to him that I object to working with
the prisoners and tell him why. Also ask if I
may not be spared entirely, since I have
reported, and then be able to return with the
men when they leave tonight. He cannot allow
that, I am free for the day to do as I wish and
he would explain to the Capt. of the company
taking over the position tonight, the
circumstances. That satisfies me. On my way
back I stop in at the infirmary and get some
pills for gassy stomach, some for dysentery
and some ointment for my foot, which I dress
in the kitchen when I get back. Take a pill,
which makes me feel worse. Go to bed and
sleep until 12. For dinner there is steak,
potatoes, tomato sauce, bread, and coffee. I
have a slice of toast, some potatoes and coffee.
That is a mistake. I should not have eaten
anything. There is nothing for me to do. I stay
in the kitchen and listen to the sympathetic
advice of the boys who would like me to go
along with them tonight. Discussing what
punishment should be meted out to the men at
Batt. Hdqrs, who are the cause of the trouble I
am in. Go upstairs and read Torchy and wait
for an opportunity to speak to Lt. He does not
appear until 4 o'clock. He sees that I have a
complaint to make, before I say a word. Offers
me a cigarette and light, diplomatically. I am
not to be disarmed. Explain to him, I object to
being considered a prisoner, and while I have
no fondness for carrying arms, I feel keenly
the degradation of having my automatic pistol
taken away from me. Of course, he does not
blame me. No man of spirit would permit such
treatment without objecting. But as much as
he would like to help me, the order must be
carried out. I suggest that I have reported for
work. Why not let the matter drop? He will
consult with K Co. Capt. who takes over
command of prisoners. He will call me later in
the day. Men are preparing to leave. Tell them
I will probably be with them. Think it an
outrage if I do not go with them for a rest.
They begin to roll packs. So do I, thinking that
either way, if I go or not, I must move from
here. The feeling of joy among the boys at
being relieved gives vent in a desire to break
things. They smash a number of pieces of
crockery, sing songs and fight among
themselves. Supper. Beef stew, bread, coffee. I
take only broth and vegetables of the stew,
thinking meat harmful. Broth is too peppery.
Noticed by all. Perhaps the reason for a most
uncomfortable time from then until far into the
night. A severe attack of gastritis. I do not feel
equal to the task of carrying a pack, but to
escape punishment and to be with my own
men, I will risk it. Orders to be ready at 8 PM.
Nothing said about me. I lie on my back in bed
for relief of cramps until then. Men assemble
outside in command of Sgt. Lt. not around.
Has he gone off and left me stranded? That is
a seamy trick that I did not expect of him.
Four men have been left behind. Two for duty
on GPOP(?)-one each at company Hdqrs.
Perhaps I will receive word from Lt. that I can
go in time to move with the men. Learn upon
inquiry that it is possible, for Lt. has not left
yet. He is out with Lt. Godfrey. New men take
possession. Three of them in an advance party.
I explain to them why I am here. Write until it
is dark, then lie down again for a nap. I am
belching excessively, gas from my stomach
leaves a nasty taste in my mouth. At 10:30
entire detachment of scouts comes in. I am
looked upon askance. In whispers they ask
each other who I am. I tell them that 4 of us
stay until tomorrow morning. I tell them about
lights and precautions they should take to
screen them. Post them on where things can be
put and found, disposition of bunks, etc. Read
Torchy until 11:30, when they are all settled
and ready to go to bed. Put out lights and lie in
the dark, feeling miserable mentally and
physically. Must go downstairs. A pitch dark,
moonless, starless night. Know my way about
212well enough to get about. Ellbogan comes in at
12:30. Tell him I will bunk with him until the
morning. My pack has not been unrolled. He
kindly offers me the use of his blankets. I
decline with thanks, as I am warm enough to
do without covers. Not long before I must go
out again. Decide to take a pill for dysentery. I
had not bothered with them till now. Gives me
immediate relief. Draft coming in through
window is strong. I search for my hat in the
dark but cannot find it. Were it not for the
discomfort the breeze causes me, I would have
been asleep long ago. with approaching
daylight, I feel fairly well and rest easily. The
day's activities have been below normal. Only
a few aeroplanes up and shelling is done by
the French only so far as I know. No
concentrated fire, that would strike one who is
accustomed to hearing them go over as only
work on the part of the artillery to keep their
guns from getting rusty and themselves from
falling asleep. I hear there is mail at Battalion
Hdqrs. I am anxious to get it if there is any for
me. Ask the men to see that it is forwarded if
they can arrange that for me. Being stranded
without mail from home is worst form of
punishment possible.