Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 19 June 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:



Wed. Jun. 19, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
Up at 6:00 . Stiff and sore. Do not care to go
to breakfast. Not very hungry. Bacon, bread,
coffee. Sit around. Look place over. Many
buildings housing our men and officers. Fine
husky lads everywhere. Group of our men
around lads who have been up line. I wash,
brush up, make bed. Go for a stroll into town.
I have a notion I would like some fruit in spite
of prices. Most men in company have spent all
their money in ......... . They come to me to
borrow. I do a thriving business as a money
lender. Into the town as workers from the
factories are going to lunch. Shops of all
kinds. Soldiers line streets, fill cafes and
restaurants, street corner groups, a crowd
around commissary where tobacco, cigarettes
and canned goods is sold. Newspaper and fruit
stands surrounded. Streets littered with orange
peels and other refuse. One cannot be at ease,
there are so many officers to salute. Attracted
by a display of laces, socks and handkerchiefs
in a shop window. Suggests itself that I might
send something home to Leah and baby. I
follow main street to end of town to gas works
and factories, which are at work on war
supplies. A slight shower comes up. I see
fishermen along river bank from road. I stop,
lean over wall and spend a few minutes
wishing that I were once again on Jamaica
Bay in a boat with Leah and the boys. The
fishing season opened officially, in France,
yesterday which explains why, till now, I have
seen no one angling. Am tempted to go back
and question them, look around for road or
incline. Find none. Go on. Buy a newspaper.
Drag my feet along. I am very, very tired,
more so than yesterday. An effort to get back
to barracks. Breathe heavily, walk heavily,
think heavily. Way seems twice as long. It
takes an age to make the short distance. I have
taken no interest in anything I have seen.
Spoken to no one I could avoid. Out one hour
and I am completely in. Throw myself down
on my straw mat, look over newspaper and in
a few minutes I am asleep. Flies walk all over
me making it impossible to sleep soundly.
Wake at 3. Wash for dinner, which will be
served at 4. I am feeling much refreshed but
am extremely blue and irritable. Walk about
grounds and buildings, in hallways of which
are maps and inscriptions chronicling deeds of
army leaders and dates of their successes,
coats of arms, etc. Nothing of an artistic or interesting nature to be seen. Everybody is
plain, ordinary, commonplace. No decorations
whatever. Supper. Beef stew, bread, coffee.
Upstairs to write at a table, a novelty since
leaving camp. Disturbed for a time until men
leave, their beds made up. One bed is on table.
Captain has announced there will be movies
from 6 to 8 at the YMCA. Everybody leaves
for town. I am left quite alone to finish my
task. I do not know what to do next. I am not
sure but what movies night appeal to me. I do
not know where they are so I will go to town
and wander about aimlessly. If I find cinema, I
will go in. In square, I am led to look again at
shelled section of town. Cross bridge to get
there. Loiter to watch fishermen once more.
Told to move on because bridge is mined.
View the ruins. See a YMCA down the street.
I go in to have a cup of lukewarm chocolate
and crackers. Cinema other side of the square.
I will go in. It is free. Inside are Americans,
Frenchmen, Italians, street urchins. Our
Captain and officers. Seats narrow and
cramped for leg room. Wait 15 minutes for
picture to be shown. "The Ragged Earl", an
old American film, I learn from man next to
me. Five reels. First one is interesting enough,
so is second, then my eyes tire. I shut them
and see myself in the Richmond or Park
Theater with Leah. The Strand and Rialto in
New York another scene in my mind. I
become indescribably melancholy and
homesick. Stay on because if I go back to
quarters I will feel worse. Here there is
something to compel slight interest at least.
Force my eyes to remain open and try my best
to follow picture. An effective cure.
Disappointed when lights go up at 8. Go out
into square. Struck at once by the similarity
sky bears to grey painted backgrounds used in
photograph galleries, which I always thought
too exaggerated. I am caught in a shower
before I go 100 yds. Manage to get to RR
station before downpour becomes too heavy.
Sit on a box waiting for it to let up. Run out at
first sign of abatement but am caught again
midway between gate and station. Run as fast
as my ambition permits and get under shelter
in doorway. Wet through. Expect to find a
candle lit in sleeping quarters so that I could
make my bed. Men are all asleep. It is dark.
Take off my shoes and make my bed and it is
not long before I am asleep. At YMCA I heard
a fine voice accompanied by piano. I ask
question concerning procedure for mailing
souvenirs and bulk articles should I have
occasion to do so. Get a surprise while
watching Frenchmen at mess to see that they
receive an issue of red wine for supper. In
questioning them, I believe I have
accomplished a feat, being first conversation
in French in which it was not necessary to
draw pictures in air. Pleased with myself for
that, the only achievement in a blue day. See a
sign on building, Bathing, Washing,
Delousing. Two Sergeants from Regulars
assigned to our company.