Author: Frederick Harold Tubb.
Date: Sunday July 04.07.1915. 
Nationality: Australian.

It was terribly hot and stuffy in the cabins last night The ship was kept darkened for fear of submarines - This ship of the Allan Line was built for Canadian trade and is not suitable for hot weather. The windows of the cabins won't open excepting a small ventilator window there are no port holes. I couldn't stand it in the cabin & went up to cautiously in the dark and got on a couch above the saloon where it was nice and cool. From conversation in the smoke room. I gathered that the reinforcement officers that joined
 
the Brigade in May have been sent back to Alexandria to prevent them from superseding the first officers which is quite right? When our Bde went to Cape Helles from Gaba Tepe on May 8th they lost 1800 in two hours out of 2,800 the reinforcement of our Bde that joined us when there were not sufficiently trained in many cases some of the men could not load a rifle properly. Poor beggars, they went right into a terrific fight as soon as they landed 10.00 Am sitting on deck enjoying the breeze the Captain has joined me & we have had a long yarn. he told me that England is building 12 floating batteries, Monitor type they only draw 8ft & have 15 inch guns, they will be of great assistance as time goes on? for they present only a small target. The Capt. told me a lot about Canada where he has been going off & on for 20 years. There are 1400 of us aboard. a mixture of all sorts reinforcements & recovered from wounds men for units nearly of every part of our Aust Divisions Lieut Yates of the 8th Bn is my cabin mate, He had done over a fortnights fighting before he was outed. He is now recovered & is going
back to his Bn. I am officer of the Guard & on duty from 10pm to 2 am have just inspected the sentries at midnight There is a big guard & special instructions have been issued regarding submarine attacks. The men are armed with ball cartridges Orders are to concentrate rapid fire on the orders of ships officer, men to fire just shortf short of periscope to obscure view of submarine etc. Whilst discussing things in the smoking room tonight A Naval Officer said that there were 6 submarines of ours at Port Mudros. Two German submarines & one Australian were known to have come here Two are supposed to be accounted for. (The Surflshuce claims to have sunk one) The Queen Elizabeth has been sent home for repairs her boilers or engines went bung. She couldn't steam more than 12 knots so she had to go back. The Navy say that they have got 27 submarines altogether. They have a first rate system of netting them now ("something like fishing for herrings") about of a mile of net is trawled capable of sustaining 180 lbs pressure before breaking
 
when a submarine strikes or the net it breaks. On the net are buoys with 180 fathoms of thin wire which uncoils easily the submarine with the net clinging to it is followed by the buoy & eventually accounted for.