Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 21 June 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:


Fri. Jun. 21, 1918
Weather: Raining, Warm
Health: Good
Up at 11. A fine state of affairs in the army.
Again it is mess kits that take the place of a
bugle. I dress quickly and run out for a
breakfast of beans and coffee. I am too late to
get anything but coffee. Gratifyingly hot. I get
back to bunk and get everything full of mud in
doing so, blankets and clothing. It steps
raining and looks clear long enough to give
me reason to believe it is good opportunity to
wash clothes. I have taken a run around town
to dodge detail duty and to buy cake and nuts
to supplement my poor breakfast. Store like
New York. Good stock and good service.
Through town in a few minutes. Streets named
for big cities on continent. See a factory block
and ....... where Americans are quartered. A
mill wheel turned by first dirty stream I have
seen in these parts. Walk up road coming upon
a Frenchman on guard at an ammunition store
in a dugout. Stop to pass the time of day and
obtain a light for my pipe. A fat Frenchman
comes along. He eyes me suspiciously and
questions soldier who gives a good account of
me. Then he questions me. He can speak
English well. I look him straight in the eye
telling him I am only out for a stroll, having
stopped to look at something which interested
me. He goes away and I return to billets
shortly afterwards. An ammunition train
pulling up to the line. Little donkey carts.
Regulars. Still clear. I undress in my bunk,
taking only suit of underwear and towel to
street trough. Women object, laying claim to
piece of board I pick for my own use. I give
them preference, shaving and washing, while I
wait for them to finish, borrow their brush and
do my work. Three or four showers come up
in the meantime. Tallon gives me a letter from
Sam Friedman. Hang clothes on a barbed wire
fence to dry. Read newspaper. Go outside to
take advantage of sun, dodge detail and to
write a letter to Leah, describing my night
marches. Company goes on guard. Men posted
on street corners to look for aeroplanes and
give alarm in case of gas attack. A siren in
square for that purpose. Two companies go
into the line tonight. Undecided which is to
go. It rains intermittently all afternoon. Mess
of boiled beef, bread, potatoes and coffee at
4:00. Make up for scantiness of morning meal. Write again until ordered to roll packs.
Countermanded by Corporal. I must mount
guard between 12:00 and 2. I am to transfer
my things to opposite barracks, where rest of
guard is quartered. I will not do this until I
have finished my letter. To be ready in case
we move. I put on my underwear, while it is
still wet. OD shirt instead of undershirt, which
is too wet. Aeroplane alert sounds. Tin hats
are put on and everybody is ordered inside, so
that pictures cannot be taken of us in numbers.
Mess served in squads with same purpose in
view at 4. I continue writing indoors. Other
men crowd in doorway, in spite of orders, to
watch shells bursting in air sent up by our men
to bring down Fritz. Lasts for an hour. Outside
to finish letter. Dark now, Corporal orders me
to claim a bunk. I do so. Transfer my stuff and
my handful of straw. Take a lower bunk and
go outside to find some long grass for
bedding. None in the vicinity. Go back.
Cannot bear to think of sleeping on wire again
this night, so I make a determined effort to get
something other than hay or grass, going down
the road for this purpose. Find a few handfuls
of grass. Meet a man with a knife who has
been cutting twigs. Good idea. Ask him to
lend me his tool. He is very obliging. We chat
while I get twigs enough for my bed. Tells he
he thinks I am above the average for a soldier
and he would like to make a friend of me. His
name is Boone, G Co. I promise to look him
up, when I have time. Make up my bunk.
Eifert, who is next to me, refuses my offer to
team up, so I sleep alone. In a few minutes
Corporal tells me post I was to guard has been
abolished. Thankful. I cannot sleep, owing to a
high temperature. I toss and cannot shut my
eyes. I do not know that I have a cold or any
other disorder. At loss to know what ails me. I
am worried. Think that I have contracted some
contagious disease from a sweater that I found
and have worn for last few days. Other queer
ideas. Boys are all awake and are making a
terrible din. Corporals swearing at each other
and noise prolonged by men who wish to
sleep, swearing end shouting at non-coms for
making noise. They are having a feast of some
kind over which there is a great deal of
contention. Bread and meat evidently stolen
from kitchen. A case of one thief calling
another. When men are told to unroll packs,
there is much grumbling. That job has become
so distasteful that men would prefer going to
the front. It is so to-night. A number of
aeroplane engagements during night. No
shelling noted. We are so situated that it is
difficult to find us. In a small valley. Pine and
birch forests all around us. Gardens are kept
by all householders. None show signs of care
and cultivation. Strawberries, cherries, plums
and other fruits plentiful in this vicinity. Some
of our boys have gone out and return with
handfuls of berries. When order to roll packs
came, I was greatly disturbed, owing to
proximity of 27th. Much relieved that other
companies go into the line ahead of us. They
will probably stay 6 or 7 days before we are
due to relieve them. I pray that this is so. If
only I am not in action on the 27th. I will not
complain if I am called upon the very next
day. I can go on with my work thinking that
God has been good to me, giving me a year of
happily married life for which I will thank him
from the depths of my heart and worship with
my whole soul. I would like to receive a
telegram or other evidence of remembrance
from Leah on that day. French newsman
creates a laugh. He comes in blowing a horn.
Reminds boys of a fish.