Author: Grover Carter
Rank: Lieutenant
Nationality: American

Text:

Grover Carter was born February 8, 1893, to Viola and James S. Carter, M.D. in Selmer, Tennessee. He was the youngest of seven children. Following a family tradition, Grover became a physician, first graduating from Union University, Jackson, Tennessee in 1912. He then entered Tennessee College of Medicine (1913), graduating with his M.D. in June of 1917. He then served and internship at Baptist Memorial Hospital in Memphis, Tennessee. On completion, he joined Hugh and Parvin, his brothers, in their medical practice, Carter Brothers, Doctors.
Grover volunteered for service in World War One. In his diary he notes his enlistment as August 1, 1917 and his commissioning as a lst Lieutenant on August 4, 1917. On September 11, 1917, he was assigned to Foreign Duty with the British Expeditionary Forces. By this time Great Britain has been in the war for over three years
and was sorely in need of medical officers. A small pocket notebook he kept covers the period from leaving Memphis through service at Dartford War Hospital. The diary begins with his arrival in France and continues through October 14, 1918. His death is listed as October 16, 1918. The only details that were found were from a newspaper article which stated “[Grover] was killed by the explosion of shrapnel while he was dressing a wound for one of his officers. A piece of metal four inches long severed his spinal cord.”

Grover was buried in Flanders Field, an American Cemetery in Waregem, Belgium. His body remained there until 1923 when he was returned to Selmer and buried at Oak Hill Cemetery on February 7. Clara Mai Wright gave me the diary sometime in the 1970’s as I wanted to transcribe it. Needless to say, it has taken far longer than I expected. Sometime after Mai’s death, Lois Prather provided additional material including pictures, three small pocket notebooks and clippings or copies of clippings. This year when I started to seriously work on the transcription I found a website, The Long, Long Trail and its forum, The Great War Forum. It is run by Chris Baker and has over 8,000 members.

Information from the forum members and website provided much clarification for Grover’s entries and greatly enhanced my understanding of the things Grover wrote. Ralph Prather provided both genealogy and photographic information. Curtis Rice supplied all my technical support, beginning with my computer and ending with proofing and editing. I am most grateful, for without this support, I would still be talking about
transcription.

Notes
 1 Under the command of General Sir Henry Rawlinson.
2 The diary entry is actually spelled “Bachimut” but an examination of detailed maps reveal Bachimont is at
the distance specified, i.e. 6 kilos.


Notes
At that time the U.S. dollar was worth about 4.77 French francs
1 A round, two man tent about 20 feet in diameter
2 A combination store, bar, café with the owner’s dwelling attached. The front room contained the business
and the rear rooms housed the owner and the family
3 Today this is Abele Aerodrome Cemetery, site of 104 graves
4 Located just outside Poperinge, Belgium, today it is the site of Lijssenthoek Military Cemetery

1 The locations mentioned April 9-18 are in Belgium, very near the French border
2 A shallow dugout or shelter