Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 14 August 1918.
Nationality: Australian

Text: 

Wed. Aug. 14, 1918
Weather: Fine, Warm
Health: Fair, Very Tired
Into the Valley of Death and
Desolation.
Hike about 50 Kilos during the day.
Some men are killed at the edge of the
wood by the bombs the Boche dropped
last night. Horses killed and equipment
damaged.
Up at 7:00. Breakfast with HQ Co. Uncooked
281bacon, bread, coffee. Meet some of the men
who were left behind where we embarked on
the lorry train for this part of the country. With
Lt. Stevens in charge, they have hiked as
many as 25 kilos a day with little food and rest
and no medical attendance. They are foot-sore
and sore at heart over the fact that they were
not permitted to travel with us. I make an
attempt to lead McFinch back to my tent to see
Doherty. The length of the trip is too much for
Mac. He turns back. I wash and take a short
nap, as far as the heat and flies will permit.
The tent is so hot that it has to be camouflaged
with boughs to keep the sun out. I lie on my
stomach to read some old letters of Leah's and
I write for the remainder of the morning.
Dinner a wonderful one. We have beef stew,
bread pudding and coffee. I scrape the pan
which contained the pudding. There is crust on
the sides and bottom. Another man employed
similarly. I ask him what my wife would say if
she could see me now. Millions of flies which
have feasted on dead men and horses share my
meal with me. It almost takes away all desire
to eat. When I pass a pile of rotting bones, my
stomach feels as though it will give up its
contents. The smell is constantly in my nose,
though I am far away from the source. Take a
nap again. Write until 1 o'clock. Then Cpl.
Doherty calls me to take a message to 2nd
Batt. Hdqrs. Regrets that he cannot get me a
bicycle. I am glad that is the case. I prefer to
ride in lorries than to push a bicycle uphill. I
have time to myself, a pleasant afternoon
hiking and riding about the country. No one
knows where it is that I have to go. The name
of the place is ........ and the direction I am to
take is shown me on a map. With the aid of
signposts, in addition to that, I will get there.
Cut short Doherty's fears and leave. Walk
along the dusty hot road reading the papers I
carry, a thing I always do to be able to deliver
the message verbally in case the papers are
lost or I am hurt. Also, anxious to see if they
contain something in reference to the men who
go home. Ask MP if I am on the right road, so
as to guide me. Every few hundred yards, I
must stop breathing or faint from the stench.
There are dead horses and decay everywhere.
A ration wagon comes, going to give me a lift
as far as the foot of the first hill. D Company
living in funk holes by the roadside. I meet
Jacobson and tell him of my fortune, which
was not destined for me after all. Now I do not
know which way to turn. There are three roads
and no signposts. Stop into a circular hut,
where are some men and G Co.'s packs, to
enquire for 2nd Batt. Hdqrs. They direct me
along a path which is in a different direction
from the instructions the last signpost gave. I
am puzzled and stay to argue the matter. The
warning hiss of an onrushing shell. I hide
behind a barricade of packs and pray. The
shrapnel falls all around us. Four or five shells
are sent. This will be no picnic for me, but I
must go on with important papers. I hurry up
the hill to the ........ farmhouse where the
kitchens are. Perhaps I may find the Major or
his adjutant there. They visit occasionally. On
the way, there is a horse killed last night.
Others dead many days, perhaps weeks.
Unfortunately, I cannot hold my breath long
enough to pass. I shudder and shiver at what is
ahead of me. Four large farmhouses in a
square with a courtyard in the center. Battalion
staff there, but no officers. I must go further.
Up a hill which is being raked by shell fire,
because one of our batteries is there. Along a
path in the wood and then for more than a mile
under observation and at the mercy of snipers
and shells. I think of home and Leah and
Cecilie and Mama and say a prayer for the
Lord to get me through safely. I find courage.
See Gillece and Wade in the yard. They tell
me what road I must follow and where hell is.
I must pass dead men. They unnerve me. They
are pale as death themselves. They have been
sent for rations. I hold it is not right to risk
282men's lives for the sake of something to eat.
While I talk to them, the shells break on the
hill ahead. A crash and the whistle of flying
shrapnel. How can I get through? I hesitate. I
ask if anybody goes my way. I do not want to
die alone. Another man to go with me. He is
badly scared too. We start for the hill in the
fire. Rush up the hill as fast as I can. The other
man sets the pace. He is tired, having been
going for 24 hours. His slowness irritates me.
It may mean death to me. I am trembling now
with the knowledge that Sgt. Greenstein and
Wedies were killed on this road last night and
Sergeant and Vandenberg were seriously
wounded by a single shell. In my ears rings
the cry of the man, whose leg was just now
torn and mangled. I heard him as I passed the
first aid station in the farmhouse, where F Co.
men lie dead and others are wounded. The
man I am with is carrying rations too. In the
wood I breathe easier. I think it is a safe place,
not knowing how many men were killed here
in the last few days. I offer to relieve my
companion of part of his burden, so that he
will travel faster. The shells break around us.
We hug the earth when we hear them. Out of
the woods and now we must travel at the
mercy of the Boche. He can see us every inch
of the way. It is not safe to proceed. Below
and behind us the earth is being torn up. We
lie flat and wait. I want to go on. I prevail. It is
worse to wait for death than face it. Three men
come up. They must travel the same road as
we. Let then lead the way. We follow as soon
as the planes that watch us are out of hearing.
Make a rush for the men. The other man too
tired to run. Against my will I go as slowly as
he. I do not know the road. Surprised to find I
am still alive, whenever I think of life or
death. Into the valley by way of a gully. Two
men on post in a funk hole. Ranier there too,
on his way back to farmhouse. He looks like
an animal. Stop to catch our breath and cool
off. On down a narrow path, down and down
we run, past a dead horse, two dixies of beans,
which also tell a story and then two dead men,
one on each side of the road. Black from
decay. Dead a long time. A million flies on
them, which will perhaps eat our food soon.
How they smell! I am braver as I pass them
than I thought I would be. Down into the
village, where there is more death. Fritz can
look right into the main street and sees our
every movement. We must run like mad.
Stones, mud and water from an overflowing
well follow us down hill. Here is destruction.
Not a soul to be seen. The smell of the dead.
Every house torn down and piled in the middle
of the street. We must clamber over pieces of
wreckage. More men rotting in the sun, one
stretched out in the yard of a ruined church.
One ambulance and a brave driver ready to
take the wounded out when the opportunity
offers. To the right, down into a cellar, where
is the Major, Capt. McM. and Lt. McD.,
Kidde, and Lt., Griffiths, the Batallion staff. I
deliver my message. I am questioned. Scolded
for having taken so long to come. The officers
are eating. Fifty million flies buzz and crawl.
Breathless. Sick men all around me. Lt.
McDougall wants news. I give him what I
have. The Captain calls me aside and tells me
he is sorry that I cannot go home. I will get a
chance again if it is in his power to give it to
me. I almost cry but I am not sorry. My
deference has been a big one. There is a
message to go back at once. Say goodbye
informally. Run away from death and
destruction. Again I must pass the shelter
before I can get out of the village. How I dread
to pass the dead men. There I must rest on that
hill almost dead from exhaustion. Across the
open field while planes are up. High
explosives break directly over my head.
Frightened. Run until my heart almost bursts. I
cannot breathe. Safe in the woods. Safely out.
Down the hill into the farmhouse, where the
kitchen is, shaken in nerves and mind. I tell
283what I have seen. Get a red hot cup of coffee.
Fill my canteen with it too. Take a can of bully
beef and some crackers. Surprised that I think
of food. Off again down the road. Five
minutes after I leave the farm a hundred shells
break on the hill behind it. With an officer and
a Y man, I hug the earth. Shell fragments fall
within two inches of me. I look and I am
afraid. I pray for death. Wish I am wounded to
end it all and then ask to be spared. I decide to
run for the nearby road. Make it safely. See
Jacobsen again. Have him follow me while I
talk to him. Outside of ........ I get a lift in a
lorry to home. I am happy. Find we are
moving. Talk, drink coffee, eat. My pack has
been rolled for me and will be taken on a
limber. Orders that I must go back to Batt.
Hdqrs. I am too dazed to think. I do not
protest. Take my sentence in silence. No hope
for life now. Out on the road in the dark. Pass
marching men. A lift in a lorry filled with
grenades. Walk again. Our batteries sending a
barrage. C Co. moving up. I fall in with then. I
am on my belly every minute. Our men shell-
shocked, trembling, crying. Manage to get to
the farmhouse. Men have been hurt after I last
left up the hill into the woods where I am lost.
Wander about much on my belly. Meet F Co.
Men trying to get down into ........ to relieve
another Co. I cannot think. I cannot talk
coherently. No one can help me and I have an
important message which I have made up my
mind to get through. Stumble about; question
men whom I cannot see. For an hour I wander.
Once I smell gas. Hide in a dugout. Find a
way out. Take with me the man who is trying
to guide F Co. He is too frightened to follow,
too frightened to turn back. Another manikin
on my hands. Meet E Co. Stop to question.
Gas is encountered. Shake again and bless
Rubin for rolling the pack. Go on, calling to
my companion constantly by a wrong name.
Take mask off. Smell something like horse
radish, but it does not kill as I understand.
Hesitate. Put on my mask again. Meet H. Co.
walking without masks. Order them to put
them on. Five men and a Sergeant also without
masks. The men are slightly wounded and are
being taken to the first aid station in the
village. Hard to see with my mask on. Two
fires on the horizon. One is distant where the
German guns flash and the flares come from.
The other in the village where I can see the
forms of men silhouetted against it. The dead
men do not smell when I have the mask on.
They are used as landmarks. We do not run.
The gas is strong in the village. A hard time
finding headquarters. The fire is in the first aid
station of the 300th. Shelling the cause. In the
Major's dugout are a swarm of men on the
floor all with masks on. Deliver my message.
Lie down on the floor, everybody sneezing
and coughing. Some vomiting. The village has
been an inferno for hours. Some shells have
hit the roof of the house but the cellar is as
strong as a block house. Hughs, our gas NCO,
without a mask, is warning everybody to wear
theirs. Everybody excited. I feel the effects of
what I have inhaled. It is 2 o'clock, five hours
since I got the message, which I do not think
was important. Shelling has ceased.