Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 7 May 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 

Tue. May 7, 1918
Weather: Raining, Cold
Health: Good, Slight headache
Up at 6:15. Arrive last on mess line. Served
ahead of other men. Find time to fuss around
in billets with ordering barracks bag and
folding blankets, scraping mud from shoes,
etc. Raining heavily. Men have started for drill
in spite of it. A gun cover and can of oil issued
to each man. Arrive at Batt. Hdqrs. rather late.
Work all morning figuring payroll. Cold
enough inside to warrant starting a fire in
small stove, fuel soft coal. Warms place taking
away chill. Dark in corner. Must work by
candlelight. Strike many snags, account of
indefinite remarks in explanation of reasons
for back pay coming to men, deductions for
fines, etc. Men come in dripping wet,
complaining of inadequate protection our hats
are against the rain. Think of men out drilling.
They must be having a hard time of it. Work
until 12. Go back to billets for mess kit. Sun is
shining. Dinner. Boiled beef, potatoes, carrots,
half portion of coffee. Report back for duty at
1. Men are wet through and in many instances
it has been necessary to change for dry
clothing. More cheerful in office in afternoon.
Go to Mansion Hdqrs. at 4 to get dates and
information in doubtful cases. On way meet
man on a horse and leading another. Fox, who
is with me, wants to ride horse not being
ridden. Asks for permission which is gladly given. I continue walking. A few minutes later
another enlisted man with two horses comes
into view. Although I have never been astride
a horse, I decide to ask permission to ride.
Granted. I mount after a little difficulty,
soldier making disclosure nag is blind. I
wondered why horse had insisted on backing
into ditch almost unseating me. Explanation
found, I think it is best to continue leading my
mount. This is done. Situation not much
better. My horse runs into leader from behind
and when leader begins to canter, my mount
following, my back is almost broken from the
jolting. I have no saddle or stirrups for support
or comfort and nags back has a knife edge
spine. Fearing I would be thrown or that I
would become sore or lame, if I continued, I
dismount and walk the remaining distance to
destination. Meet Fox at crossroads. Have
doubtful matters cleared up and return to
billets in time for supper. Bully beef, bread,
marmalade, coffee. Write until 8:30. Read
newspaper until dark. Make bed and turn in.
Men returning from village bring news that
Capt. and Sgts. have returned from the front
and are telling their experiences. They have
been to Arras front, where they have worked
with men in the trenches. Went out on patrol
over the top. Stood by. Describe action. No
man's land. Tell of bursting shells nearby,
night raid, etc. A sickening sight they say,
unnerving, yet one worth a thousand dollars to
be permitted to witness. Would not give a
nickel to return. Tell of comradeship of men
they fought alongside of. All good fellows.
Comradeship between officers and men. Saw
men killed in action. Bayonet smeared with
blood for 3/4ths of its length, with an
inscription saying that it was revenge for three
brothers of owner who were killed by
Germans. A gruesome sight at the recollection
of which our men shiver. Three British
soldiers are arrested in the village for
insolence to our officers. Retaliation for arrest
of our men in St. O. Incessant artillery action
throughout the day and night. Towards
evening about 30 aircraft are observed flying
high in direction of front. Learn that my being
detailed to work at Battalion Hdqrs. was
opposed by someone in orderly room. Lts.
anxious to have me back with company to
rejoin machine gun squad. They stop me when
ever we meet on the road to ask me how long I
will be away. A few cases of dysentery have
made their appearance. Slight attacks. Men not
permitted to drink water from town wells.
Only water from carts in square to be used for
filling canteens.