Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 20 March 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 

Wed. Mar. 20, 1918
Weather: fine, clear Health: good
Relieved at 6:00. Make my bunk, immediately have breakfast. Oatmeal, french toast, coffee up. Formation. Lieut. McDougall picks out a detail of 30 men to shovel coal. Some men who have been on guard all night are selected. I expected to be, but escape notice. Sweep up platoon room a tiring job and a very dirty one. Get no help whatever. Buy a newspaper, lie down on bunk to read it, but fall asleep from fatigue. Sleep an hour, am rudely awakened by boys. Freeze. Wanted in Mess Hall. I expect the job that I get. Boys in half barracks, new men, are at rifle range and must have dinner brought out for them. A box of sandwiches, a can of coffee. Corp. Doherty in charge. Duvansky and Barlitz take box Salzburg....and I have cans. A most clumsy load. A long time before we can find a comfortable grip on it. Strike out over parade ground. Doherty thinks we will save time by keeping to the left road. I think otherwise and it is decided that I am right. In order to get right road, we must cut through woods and underbrush. Can wobbles and we spill much of its contents. Much discussion as to who is to blame. My arms tire quickly. Must take frequent rests. Bewnie afraid we are on wrong track when after an hour, road is not in sight. Barlitz sent out as scout. We wait. No word from him. We are sure he is lost. Halloo and whistle. I climb a tree to look for him, or possible landmarks on road. Can see nothing. Decide to start without Barlitz, because it is getting late. Suddenly find our lost man. He has found road, quarter mile away. We exchange burdens. New one is worse. Harder to carry. Hit road. Rest. Start out at a brisk pace and get to range in a few minutes. Boys have just finished shooting. Scramble for sandwiches and coffee. They have pies, too. Take back empty cans. What a delightful day? Walk a mile. Lie down by roadside, tramp fashion. I would have been content to stay so for summer. Get home without any further stop. Arrive in Mess Hall. No dinner for us. This was expected. Lt. Cook anxious that we be fed. Lieut. Griffiths anxious to put us to work. We get steak, all ............., cold potato, good coffee. Hardly get an opportunity to dry dishes, when Lieut. Griffiths calls for me. Work to be done is to clip cartridges and fill bandoliers. Do not go out for retreat. Picked out to post new guard. Wait for an hour before the work of F. Company is approved. Supper. Spaghetti, prunes, tea. Read for a while, which puts me to sleep. Wake at 7:00. Want to ask Captain for pass, but decide to ask Lt. Cook. A tactical move. Has stereotyped answers for everything I ever asked him. Write a letter to Leah. To late to mail it. I have no stamps and P.O. is closed. Must wait till morning to mail it. Write Mama. To bed 10:30. Enjoy luxury of taking my clothes off. It is not so cold. Sleep the sleep of the tired. Have 2 letters today. One from Lou Steinberg, containing good and bad news. Letter from Leah contains a copy of letter written by Tumulty to Nuck Sachs. It occurs to me to suggest doing work (printing) for Company Commander. Boys are stamping and stenciling equipment in Mess Hall, Work till 11. Bacon Cabs, Mess kits, Condiment Cans, identification tags, bayonet scabbards marked. All in all work of marking and stencilling has been a huge task, Boys have applied themselves well and have worked willingly.
