Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 18 April 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Thursday April 18, 1918
Weather: Cloudy, Cold
Health: Worst day of all. Splitting
headache for 7 hours.
Up at 8:00. Go on sick call. I would like to do
my shift of guard duty but Sgt. Fisher insists
that I remain in bed until he calls for me.
Along comes Kaplan and insists that I go on
guard. We have a slight altercation over it. He
threatens to report me for insolence. I get up
for I do not want to refuse to do my duty and
after a stormy scene enacted before half of
guard detail we go to our posts while Kaplan
routs remainder out of bed. Do one and a half
hour's work and am relieved to get breakfast.
This time a little forethought and arrangement
is evident. We are served a very good
breakfast of liver and bacon, bread, oatmeal
and superior coffee. Feeling fairly well.
Expect that headache will leave me, I go up on
deck for first time during day. Rough seas and
a strong head wind. Flying fishes numerous.
We run into a school of dolphins. They follow
our ship for miles. In plain view from rail.
They leap and play in the waves which attracts
a great many men to the rails. A big sea sends
a shower of spray over deck completely
wetting holders of first line positions. A guy
rope wired for signal flags has been torn loose
and flags fly in strong breeze. Cannot be
brought down except by climbing to masthead
and gathering in from that end. A dangerous
climb necessary. I watch, looking up into a
half-clouded sun and exposed to the wind.
After a few minutes I feel bad effects of sun
and wind in my congested head. A headache,
neuralgia, which increases in intensity with
every minute, begins. I go below to lie down.
Manage to fall asleep and do not awake for
dinner. At 2:30 I must get up to appear at boat
drill. We get up in quick time. Gusty and cold
up forward where we assemble. My head
aches so that my eyes water. Seems an eternity
before we are dismissed. Back in bunk again
till 3:30. Sgt. Fisher places me on sick call
again. Doctor gives me a dose of salts and
some pills which are nastiest ever, to be taken
every three hours. In bunk. Pound my head
and toes about in pain. Wash a few
handkerchiefs and make my toilet. Feeling
worse every minute. Cannot go to supper. Ask
boys to bring me a cup of tea and some bread.
Very kindly they oblige me, but I cannot touch
food. I ask Sgt. Lemmon to report to doctor
and ask his advice. Comes back with news that
nothing can be done for me. I try my best to
sleep and when I succeed, a game of quoits is
started which creates much excitement and
much noise. My bunk used as a chair by 4 men
taking away what little air and light there is. I
must get angry and use force to dislodge them.
Game goes on as before, noisier than ever.
Headache much abated so I get up for a little
walk. Eat bread and jam and manage later to
get a cup of coffee. Upstairs to see what night
looks like. Clear, moon and stars out.
Downstairs to write. To bed at 1:30. Sleep
well. Lanterns are ready, lit and placed at
convenient points in corridor to be used in
emergency that engines are damaged and
lights go out. Smoke bombs by boats to be
thrown overboard if danger demands. Men not
permitted to approach with lighted cigarettes
or cigars. Captain has managed to procure
some good coffee and a bun for our company.
A complaint about the food has been made to
him. System in Mess Hall is changed to better
service. Nearly a collision between our ship
and another due to signals being misconstrued.
Distance between ships is barely 50 feet. 