Author: Thomas James Richards.
Date: 9th November 1916.
Location: Delville Wood.
Regiment: 1st Field Ambulance.
Rank: Lieutenant.
Nationality: Australian.


 Left 1st Field Ambulance and joined 1st Battalion with a Commission.

BOOK 4 NOVEMBER 9th, 1916    Thursday It is passed midnight and I am waiting along the road just on the northern side of Delville Wood with an Ambulance waggon for a load of patients. There is a lull on and all is quite but for the desultory and intermitting fire of our own big guns, and a burst of machine gun fire from up clouds warning us that there are German aeroplanes about even if their big guns are resting in silence. The night is a little hazy but the full moon makes the road quite plain and rather cheerful. It was rather unusual to see the sun slide quickly over the western rise while the moon, delightfully clear, rose in  the east. The day has been one of our very best of late;  the sun shone with but few breaks all day. As our waggon  finished up working at 1 o'clock this morning we do not go on again until midnight, so there was whole day and good day before me, even if it was a wee bit cold and decidedly wet and slushy under foot from the rains of yesterday and of weeks previously which have never had a chance to dry. I took advantage of it to wash myself two pairs of socks two singlets, a flannel shirt and towel. I could not then go back to my humble abode and read or write so I shook up Tom Yeomans and went, through slime and muck over my boot  tops, over into Tunes Wood, very much shattered and depleted, around past batteries of Tommy howitzers to the awful ruins of the sugar refinery. Once, by the machinery lying about and heaped up in huge pile, it was a splendidly equipped plant; now there is not a piece of plate in either boilers  or large iron tanks that is not shattered by high explosive  shells and riddled by bullets. The two chimneys stacks lay  in churned up piles just where they fell with scarcely a whole  brick to be found.

-2- There are lots of troops camped in every conceivable corner.  A machine gun section of the 1st Battalion (or was it the 3rd Battalion?) were camped  there. One lot had turned a broken boiler over  and made a respectable home out of it. From this scene of destruction we wandered back to camp 1½ miles away over very broken country as fighting has been terrific all around here. It was, however, fairly good walking amongst the craters but on coming to a cavalry track or horse line the slush was a fair terror.  All day long the aeroplanes have been fighting one with the other or facing anti-aircraft gun fire. These anti-aircraft guns are, to the casual observer, quite  a laughable proposition. I was near them the other day  when there was a rumour of "Taubs" about, and the excitement,  talk and jabbering of that gun crew was disappointing to me.  There was an officer standing behind and when he did spot a  "Taub" with his glasses the gun crew could not find it  to lay on to, nor could I see anything but your own machines about. Anyhow, after a whole lot of exciting chatter they fired a few shots and stopped. I thought then that they  must take things more coolly at most times or no 'plane of our own would be safe coming back from the German lines moving amongst the clouds for a while. This day these air guns got plenty of work as the sky was dotted about in all directions with bursting shells dozens of times. It is  surprising how much these guns miss by, also; and as for bringing a machine down, I have never yet seen them do it,  although they say they do. But, after all, I except it is  my lack of acquaintance with either 'planes or guns that  gives me the idea that the anti-aircraft guns are as yet  primative and unsuccessful at their branch of work. 
- 3 - There were some 15 German balloons to be seen from the one point of vision to-day, while I counted 24 of our own. The Taubs, a much smaller machine and I believe a faster one too although we are told it is not so, flew calmly overhead many times to-day and as they are about at night time also, it shakes one's faith in the hold that we have had for a long time over the Germans in the air. Our first clear day, a day that one could admire, or rather the kind of day one longs for during the long series of dull ones, so that he can look at it and enjoy its gladness, its brightness and its joys. Then alas! it is spoilt, and when the day has gone one is glad as the spotting out of trenches and positions only means death from the artillery fire that is sure to follow; and then there is always a thought, an anxious and an almost sickly thought for the safety of the men up in the clouds who are shooting at one another like animals and yet are clever and brainy as well as daring and brave men. It is a day of doubt and dread; so that, when a good day does occasionally come along there is but little satisfaction derived from it. Letters from Father, Bert, Ferguson, Reynolds, and four bundles of papers from home. Father is bright and still expectant of recovery after 3 years of illness. He has a great heart!! Bert sends a cutting of my football article (Sydney Mail, September 13th) which is decidedly pleasing and will have a stimulating effect upon my work. I am sorry though that Bert is again joining up with the artillery. He should have a spell first.