Author: Ernest L Muzzall

Date: 10 March 1918

Text:

About 3 a.m. on the morning of March 10, we arrived at the Fort Riley
station in the midst of a bitter and cold blizzard with the snow and dust about
equally mixed for which, we were told later, Kansas was famous. As we watched
the train fade into the distance we felt very forlorn until a voice came to us out of
the storm. “You guys for Riley?” While I thought this a silly question, it was
nevertheless a welcome sound. We handed him our travel orders and he started off
with a “Follow me” thrown over his shoulder. We commented that it was cold.
“Only 15 below,” he said, “and it frequently gets down to 20-25 below here.” He led us to the section of the camp about a mile away where we were told that a
certain squad tent was to be our home until further orders. Seeing that there was
no heat we went to the mess hall next door and sat out the rest of the night where at
least it was fairly warm.
And so began our training at Riley. The first few weeks were spent in
interminable hours of fours right and left, school of the soldier, and, later, days at
the stables learning the cavalry way of caring for horses. Then, days and days of
cavalry drill out on the prairie. At first this was torture for the cavalry does not
ride “easy” like a cowboy. But this soon came to be among the most pleasant of
our experiences. Amusements were few and far between. We had one small “Y”
building which was packed to suffocation every night. We had little compared to
Camp Funston next door. When the weather got better there were outdoor movies
and sometimes boxing matches. 

The highlight for me in May was making the M. O. T. C. baseball team at
third base after which our company won the post championship. This relieved me
for a time of considerable distasteful duties. This was especially appreciated as in
June and July we had some terribly hot weather. For days it frequently went up to
107 degrees and we were told that on one occasion it reached 117. I don’t know
the truth of this but it seemed unbearable. In July I was given a ten-day pass and
decided to go to Michigan to see my uncle and aunt, Alfred and Julia Murray
Muzzall, my father’s brother and my mother’s sister. Their son, Dr. Harry
Muzzall, was a dentist in Coopersville and he put my teeth in good shape. This
trip was quite a happy experience for I was able to see my grandfather, Joseph
Murray, who was almost a hundred years old, and my cousins, the Murray boys. I
felt quite good that I had been raised a step in rank to private first class just a little
while before.