Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 4 March 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Monday Mar. 4, 1918
Weather: mild, clear Health: good
Up at 6:00. Reveille. Breakfast, boiled rice, hash, coffee. To Rifle Range. Walking is good in spite of hard ground. Just cold enough to be comfortable. At Range 8. Shooting from 100 yard mark at figure of head. Targets khaki colored and difficult to locate. Five shots. Five shots slow fire. Four hits, last one a miss. 200 yd. range. Head and shoulders, first two hits, 3 misses. Targets hard to judge. Back to 300 yd. mark at same targets. Only 1 hit, a total score of 7 out of 15 shots. 9 necessary to qualify for rapid fire. Make fires to keep warm. A chill wind has blown up. 25 men, I among them picked to work in pits behind targets this afternoon. Rest of Company goes back. Apples, sandwiches and coffee come up very late. Eat too fast. Not good for me, heartburn resulting. Troubled all afternoon. Must be in pits at 12:15. A most interesting sight. Work on 48 target with Florio. Tobacco runs out. It is cold in trench and spend most of my time at fire near supply hut. Poor serves on my target. I was pasting patches on head shot at from 100 yards. I only paste two patches. Shooting from 200 and 300 yard lines also poor. Only 3 hits all afternoon and that very late. Bullets whiz overhead, a sound that greets my ears for first time. Dust and pebbles come into trench from hitting parapet. That must have tons of lead in it. Firing ceases at 3:00. Back to barracks at an easy pace. Many men on road ahead of us. Ground has been softened by tramp of feet. Walking ideal. Miss Retreat by a few minutes. Set about cleaning gun after supper. Chili con carne, hard sauce and jelly, coffee. I cut up cake I received from school girls. Boys pronounce it perfect. Sam comes to tell me that he goes away to Tenafly preparatory to embarking for France early in morning. Wish him luck and say goodbye. He promises to write. Try to write but cannot concentrate. K of C Hall to telephone Leah. To YMCA Auditorium just as it begins snowing. Archbishop of York makes an address very stirring, which is a message of thanks from England and an appeal for help. On stage, in wings, very near to Archbishop, a fine old man, and General Johnson. I am inspired to help, but desire to stay here until end of April tugs strongly. Back to barracks. Write a letter asking for aid of Captain, a fervent appeal. Read it but am not quite satisfied with it. To bed at 11:30. Sleep well. I.....