Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 20 July 1918.

Nationality: Australian

Text:

Sat. Jul. 20, 1918
Weather: Fair, Hot
Health: Good
Everybody up and on the job at 4 in spite of
pretests. They don't go with this outfit.
Because it takes a little longer than Lt. thinks
it should to get outside, he comes for the Corp.
to inquire why. He himself comes in to order
some of the men out, and as a result we are
told we will all pay the penalty. The Capt.
230comes down, too, to look us over. He does not
approve of grinning and thinks our jobs should
he made more difficult because Smith grins.
To begin with, we will get no breakfast until
mess is delivered to the boys in the lines. We
are paraded to the kitchen and on the way up I
have some very serious thoughts. I realize that
it is best to go through with this thing, and
complain after, so I say nothing to Capt. This
is my last day anyhow. To-morrow should see
me back with my company. At the kitchen
everything is ready. Cans of bacon and coffee
strapped into carriers are put on the backs of
men. I take 4 empty bacon cans to be used for
taking mess to the outposts. One group of men
to GC5 - my group to GC6. A long walk, hot
and dangerous. I think what a sin it is to make
a husband and father take such risks, unarmed.
I could kill the men that gave these orders. A
dozen times I almost break my neck by
banging my steel helmeted head against the
upper cross pieces of shoring. Sweating like a
"bull" is supposed to sweat. Arrive at post
without incident, one place passed, pointed out
by corporal as the point which was made a
target by MG last time they were up. Is this
not a horrible predicament for me to be in? At
post is a fussy looking Lt., who calls
everything a "damn thing". He is disliked by
all the men. The plan they have for feeding
men on post is that we take the food up to
them in the bacon cans. A corporal assigned to
the task of showing us the way. He goes astray
two or three times, as who would not, in these
ditches. The mess is cold when we get to the
first post we serve. I wait while corp. and man
serve two others. Then we go back to the
starting point for cans and carriers. Ten Allied
planes have gone over early in the morning on
a bombing expedition within the German
lines. They are coming back amid shell fire, as
we emerge from Central, minus one of their
number. In the kitchen for mess. Plenty of
bread, Karo and coffee, but no bacon. We
complain. Cook fries some for us. He does not
know what he is doing. Takes him 15 minutes
to find something to fry bacon in. If he puts a
thing down, he forgets where. Strikes me as a
very queer person. While we are messing,
some more of our planes go up. They are
peppered with German HE before they can get
across right ever our heads. It rains iron into
the streets of the town. I will not even go out. I
advise all the men it is best to keep indoors.
None of them obeys. There is an OB up and
they may be seen, for he is looking right down
the main street of the town. The din is about as
big as any I have ever heard. The entire town
shakes. The ruins shower brick and whatever
else is loose. When it is all over I go to
quarters. Two planes are still up drawing fire.
I write and rest until it is time to go out with
noon mess. I catch Smith, whom I suspected
of prying into my things yesterday, in the act
of opening the folder which contains pictures
of Mama and Papa. Promise to thrash him
unless he goes downstairs at once. He goes
without a word other than the excuse that he is
looking for paper. I tell men to be on the
watch for him. Mess of bacon, tomatoes, bread
and coffee. I take a can of coffee to GC5, the
shortest trip. Cover is not screwed down
tightly and contents spill all over me. I have a
fight in my efforts to have it fixed. It cannot be
done, so I take it through the Boyau. My
clothes absorb as much sweat as coffee.
Shame surges through me. Drunkards are
supposed to do this work, not I. There the men
from the post come for their own mess. It is
served to them from dixies. Go back empty
handed. Have a good dinner of corn, bacon,
coffee with milk, bread and syrup. To
quarters, write barefooted in bed. Rest an hour
or so. An occasional fire from the guns behind
us, which in the morning were quite active.
O'Keefe and De Andrea bring up McKeon and
O'Connell from E to join the prison gang.
They tell me there is mail for me and my heart
231aches to read it. I am angry with them for not
bringing it. They did not know I was here.
Nobody does and it surprises them. Get news
from Co. Ready for supper trip. Wait for it
while I talk to boys in Cafe next to kitchen.
Hear a shot fired. Pay no attention to it,
because it is quite frequent that someone
draws his rifle. By joining Lt. 10 minutes later,
I go out to see if mess is ready and find an
excited group in the kitchen. The cook, who I
thought acted queerly in the morning, has
attempted to blow his brains out. He has
succeeded in tearing away his gums, teeth, lips
and part of his nose. Lies in bed, a gory sight,
conscious, brushing away flies, which are on
his face, Lt. and Captain ministering to him. I
am not much affected by the sight, nor do I
sympathize with the man. Boys, who know
him, tell me the troubles which worried him.
Take coffee to GC5 again. Keep dry this time.
It begins to cloud up. A shower is imminent
but passes over. Back empty. Supper. Corn,
bread, syrup, coffee and milk. To quarters to
write. I have made inquiries about being
permitted to leave for my company quarters to
rejoin them. Captain does not know particulars
of my case. I am disappointed. A gale blowing
now. Sky clear. A fine sunset. Get a canteen of
water. When I come back, begin a letter to
Antoinette by candlelight. Corporal comes
with awful news that we are wanted for work.
Complaints do not help. We must go. Respect
Capt. To Chateau to pick up bedding rolls of
officers and carry them to Hdqrs. in wood on
stretchers and a sheet for pack. When that is
finished, we carry ammunition till 11:30. A
ticklish job. My thoughts are not in harmony
with the bright moonlight night. At finish I
meet Capt. and ask him when I am released.
He does not know. Wants me to follow him to
look up record. Find that date of committal
only is posted opposite my name, which
means I must stay until he can get in touch
with Lt. Griffiths. Must be up at 4 in the
morning. In my bunk at 12. The wind howls.
There are no windows to shut and I lie in a
tremendous draft all night. Awake most of
time. Hear unofficially that Harry Schneider
was one of the victims in C Co.'s tragic affair
last month. I make inquiries but no one is sure.
They think so. Town now completely
evacuated but for a few dozen men. New
corporal in charge of prisoners proves to be a
good fellow.