Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 30 January 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Wednesday Jan. 30, 1918
Weather: cold, clear Health: good
Up at 6:00. Reveille. Breakfast, shredded wheat biscuits, baked apple, coffee. Water detail. Practice for Regimental Review. Outside formation for company. In third platoon, regular place. Am thrown out and put in 2nd, a procedure which is galling. There is no incentive to work and if anyone had seen me or been watching me, I would have gotten the balling out of my career. Fell out for a few minutes. Call comes to assemble. In company front before I am ready. I have to sneak into rank. Review begins as I brace up and I give creditable performance. Our platoon (second) commended. Curley finds opportunity to scold me most severely. I do not pay any attention which angers him. My hands are so cold that I have to ask Lieut. Mullin for a pair of gloves. He lends me his own. I go to his room for them. Company shows up well. Dismissed at 11. Rest, read, write till dinner. Roast beef, potato, peas, soup, coffee. Out to have pictures taken but camera takes postcards only. Out for drill at 1:15. Run into Lt. Col. Boniface. He thinks well of us, especially pleased with our formation for physical exercise. March to Colored YMCA. Lieut. Cook announces plans for tomorrow. Go in on 5:15 train and march to 71st Regiment Armory to store arms. He tells us that we may have to place guard over guns and men who make mistakes this afternoon will be the ones selected. Calls for great will power on my part and I resolve not to make any mistakes. Not one do I make yet Sgt. Curley insists on telling Lieut. Cook I do not work well whenever he gets opportunity. Dismissed at 3. One hour’s rest. Then Retreat. Try to get full equipment from Supply Sgt. Nothing that fits. Read till supper. Beef stew, slices of pineapple, tea. Mark Block comes with a package of oranges and cake, which I share with Ferguson. Read. Shine shoes. Wash leggings. In Orderly Room to get a plaster for a blister on foot. I am waiting for 9:30 to call up Leah. Time drags. Talk long to Leah. Come back to find Mess Hall lit and whole company assembled. The Capt. has decided to have boys sign payroll. Everybody mustered up and ordered downstairs. Boys in all stages of undress. Bathrobes, overcoats, some in underwear. Bathe, shave, wash a towel. To bed at 11. Tired. Sleep well. Lieut. Cook, after Mess, gives a few words of warning and friendly admonitions to those boys who might get drunk. He pays particular attention to Del Duca and Moore. Quite an intimate talk. Chaff and promises.
