Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 20 January 1918.
Location: At Home.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Sun. Jan. 20, 1918
Weather: clear, cold Health: good, feet hurt a bit
AT HOME
Up at 7:00. I receive a kiss in bed from Rachel who is going to Pleasantdale. My bed is warm and my wife is interesting so we talk until we doze off again. This continues at intervals until 1:30, after which we finally get out and I take a bath which is cold and unsatisfactory. Downstairs to see Leah’s Mother, Granny, Pop, and sisters, Hy Agar. All very glad to see me and I am pleased to tell them that I am feeling well and have gained in weight. I put away a prodigious breakfast and a good cup of tea as only made in Leah’s house. It is the best part of the meal. I must tell my stories. Read picture section. See pictures of Camp Dix which are unpleasant reminders of Camp Upton. With full belly I am disgracefully drowsy and hear with disappointment that dinner will soon be ready. I do not know what to do with it as I am as full as a bust. Lounge and read while Leah is busy. Play victrola. Call up Dolly. Mama calls me up. She is worried about Bella who has gone to see Mark. I get ready to go away again just as I am becoming used to home. A little to eat. Leah promises not to cry which will ease the pain of our parting. Away at 8:30. 9:00 boat. I intend to write to Connier but garrulous old man engages me in conversation until Subway, where I write letter, finishing it in street while waiting for car. Penn Station at 10:00. Only three of party there. We strike out for ourselves. I ask gateman to mail my letter. Warm train. Meet some Company E boys. Change at Jamaica where I get comfy seat in warm car. Read till I feel drowsy. Nap for an hour. Meet Aaron who is Act. Sgt. Major at OTC. Worried about trip from Patchogue to Camp. Kummel suggests plan for getting bus. Train on time. I get into bus in spite of nine boys hanging on to my legs. Trip to Camp bumpy, uncomfortable. At barracks 2:45. A great many boys drunk. Get a sandwich and some cake and go to bed happy to be able to say my prayers for Leah.