Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 22 April 1918.

Location: FRANCE.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Monday April 22, 1918
Weather: Fair, Mild
Health: Fair, Only slight headache
Up at 6:00. Wash, make bunk. Out for a few
minutes to look about. Go to parapet
fortifications. Want to go on sick call to
prepare against possible headache. Cannot
find doctor. Issued three tickets, one each for
breakfast, dinner, tea. Breakfast. Canned
sausage, bread, butter, jam, coffee. Lots of it
and good. Run up to canteen to get cigarettes.
Out of tobacco. Supply in pack. Company
formed. We move down road to tents camp.
Twelve men in small circular tent. Puzzled to
find how we will sleep. Go back for blankets
which with packs fill up tent. Watch English
drill. We do not fraternize at all. There are
coolies, Indians. Most motley aggregation of
men I ever saw what with our own men of
every nationality. Many women workers.
Children drawing carts. Company formed with
rifles and marched through village to ordnance
warehouse, to get new style rifle and bayonet.
Road full of children begging. Women and
little girls selling fruit and chocolate. Houses
ramshackle, plaster and mud walls, dirty and
ill kept. No men in sight. A long wait for our
turn. One man taken ill. Road alive with
traffic. Supply trucks, messengers, gendarmes.
See a steam propelled vehicle which looks to
be very efficient. Ambulances from station
bringing in wounded going to "Blighty". Some
pitiful cases. Others slightly wounded fill up
big trucks. They are a happy crowd. Faces and
arms and legs bandaged. Severely wounded
driven very slowly. Women chauffeurs.
Bicycles by the score. All officials ride. Most
women in mourning. Get a new rifle and
bayonet, late model. Clean pieces in street.
Dust blows and covers where we take off
grease. Check up and go back for dinner.
Mutton stew, bread, rice pudding. Company
forms again and marched off for miles along a
stream to gas mask station. Given a mask and
instructed in its use. While we wait I start a
letter to Leah. Women and children reap a
harvest selling chocolate at exorbitant prices
to men. Officers cannot drive them away.
Very late. Go to ordnance stores to draw
ammunitions and steel helmets. Much fun
trying on helmets. A long march back to
camp. Boys amuse themselves by coaxing
coolies to march in column with us. Give them
helmets to wear. An audience of English all
along route. Back in camp at 8. Supper of
cheese, bread, jam of which we partake
ravenously. I am very hungry. We make some
sort of order in our tent in the rapidly falling
light. Put packs along the walls to use as
pillows and stretch blankets toward center
pole. Thus we make arrangements for ten men
to sleep. Two men find space in an empty tent
in camp. I go to bed immediately. Some men
have gone to town and at 9 they return and
upset everything in the darkness. It rains for a
few minutes. Tent is waterproof however.
During our march of about 10 miles only
camps and stores were seen. Everything gives
up to the military establishment. One thing
that impresses me is the salvage dumps where
worn out and discarded material and
equipment are stored and reclaimed, if
possible. Another thing is the good order and
cleanliness prevailing about English barracks.
Where an Englishman stays he builds himself
a garden in his spare time. English officers I
see all carry canes and are dressed to
perfection. I see a windmill and cottages built
of mud and straw. The French permit their
trees to grow to the height of the first branches
and clip them off, leaving knobs only,
probably using twigs and branches for firewood and preserving the trunks of the
trees. We pass down avenues lined with these
trees on both sides. From the distance they
look like huge knobbed walking sticks.
Estaminets or cafes in every village in the
proportion of about ten to every fifteen
houses. Crowded with Englishmen drinking
beer and red wine.