Author: Thomas James Richards.
Date: 11th November 1916.
Nationality: Australian.

November 11th     Saturday.  It is wonder that I have not previously  mentioned chilblains herein, as I have two feet each with  from 4 to 6 very sore spots on them. There seems but  little to do with them but use iodine. Iodine and soda-sal  are the two and only remedies in the military world  no matter what your trouble is its one or the other or  possibly both. At night time my chilblains trouble me  most. Dozen of fellows around are troubled with them. The stretcher bearers when resting are quartered in three long narrow improvised tents say 26 feet long and 12 feet wide, with the sides pegged to the ground. Well,  last night, while there were some 20 men sleeping inside a big German shell broke through the side breaking the cross  beam and exploding in the ground right at the heads of the  men asleep on the opposite side to the shell's entry. This morning when I went up to see, the edge of the deep shell  crater was inside the covering of the tent and underneath  where the men's heads were resting, and it is hardly  conceived to believe that not a person was injured. A  miracle!! I "pictured" the scene and as I broke the stays of the camera I will have to go without the use of it now. It is past midnight but I must chronicle something  herein as I want my mind tomorrow to write up a few Xmas  letters for the mail closing the same day, and to write as  I most desire to do it is necessary to forget much of our  sordid surrounding and work. To-night I brought down some  rather severe cases in my waggon and the groans and shouts  of pain haunt me and I believe will haunt me regardless of my desire to draw a screen over my experience in conjunction  with the handling of bad cases on bad roads and other hideous  features.  The day has been very misty and without sufficient  light for aeroplane or balloon observations and yet our guns have been sending over barrage after barrage of fire for Fritz to juggle with several times during the day. As I now write the guns are rumbling in dozens and the noise reminds me of the old rainbow quartz crushing mill on Ch. Towers. None of those stampers could be heard falling, neither could one particular gun or any one gun heard in putting up a barrage. They just rumble along for 20 minutes or ½ an hour and then steady off. To-night shell fell around our stand at the Dump. One hit a heap of sand-bags and blew them about for 150 yards. Those sand-bags were on the wires and up the trees, yes! bags everywhere. A man is jolly lucky to live for very long in this area no matter where he is or what he is doing. In the Pozieres battle it was the shell shock cases that seemed the most helpless and wasted, here in Longueval - Bopume its the "trench feet" men that seem so much wastage and dead loss. They are in a pitiful plight to have, and we have, mostly, to carry them as they cannot bear to put a foot on the  ground at all and suffer greatly.