Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 17 June 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 


Mon. Jun. 17, 1918
Weather: Raining, Chill
Health: Good
Hike 12.4 kilometres to ......... "In like a
lamb. Out like a lion" Off to the C.........
Up at 6:00. It is raining so heavily I deem it
improbable, Reveille or formation will be
held. Lie abed. Reveille, rain or no rain, but
Sgt. having difficulty getting men out of tents.
In great haste I reach for my shoes. Find that it
has rained into one of them. Socks are damp.
Slow down because I realize it is impossible to
appear on time. Get word to squad leader to
report me present which he does. I remain in
shelter until mess line shortens. Crawl out in
full view of Lt. C. I eye him narrowly. He
seems to bear me no grudge. I hardly think it
possible that my absence should go unnoticed
but it has! A bully breakfast of rice, prunes
and figs, bread, karo and tea. Very
uncomfortable for two to eat in our little tent.
Rubin crawls in rubbing inner surface of tent
cloth, causing water to come through.
Thereafter a steady drip until noon when a pal
suggests we rub entire interior surface which
attracts drip to bottom. We are all much
perturbed over possibility of forming for drill.
It would be a sorry day for us if drill were
contemplated. By 1:30 nothing said. Mail
given out. I have 3 letters from Leah, one from
Mama. Good cheer reigns at home, Thank
God. All are well. No drill, mind at ease again
about things at home, I am in a mood to write
a long letter to Leah. I bless the rain. It is
making a quagmire of the field, wetting our
blankets and my feet are cold as ice. No
reason why I should not spend the day with
Leah as I promised myself I would. Rubin is
inclined to write. We are as uncomfortable as
we can be. Lie on stomach till it hurts, wiggle
and squirm to find comfort. None to be had.
Have occasion to go outside and see two
dozen men drilling in the rain by way of
atoning for absence at Reveille, squad leader
among them for having a dirty gun on
Saturday. Write until 12. Mess. Fine boiled
beef, potatoes, tea, bread. Take off my shoes,
socks, spread my blankets and settle myself
for a nap. If drill call blows, let it blow. My
feet warm up. I fall asleep. Wake to find my
tent fallen in, everything wet. F Co. men
moving into billets have pulled up a stake
from soft earth, without stopping to repair the
damage. Fix it. Go out for a bit of air. What
will I do next? Another letter from Leah is
given me. What now? A bombshell, work
aplenty. Clean guns wanted. Rag and oil
furnished for purpose. Small extra blanket
rolls are to be made up. We move tonight in
the rain. Someone is joking? I pay no
attention. Do my writing. Supper is served.
Bully beef, potatoes, coffee, bread. Ordered to
strike tents. No shirking it now. Rubin is not
around. He has gone for supper to the village. I make the best of it in his absence. Prepare
my own pack first. He comes to help. In a few
minutes we are once more homeless and at the
mercy of someone else. Rubin has a piece of
plum pie. Only that can make me feel
cheerful. I go for water. I am caught for a
detail to unload our blanket rolls at Batt.
Hdqrs. and it is dark before I come back.
Tobacco has been issued, 2 pkgs, 25 box
cigarettes. Rubin has something better for me.
Three more letters, one from Leah, two from
Lottie. Everything is so wet and sticky, heavy.
March off at 9:45. First lap made with ease. It
is not so very dark, not raining hard. Road is
fine. We see no opening in woods as we pass
through. It is the force of our wills and from
sheer ????? that opens the gates for us. The
sky rises from the embankment just at the side
of the road. Those dark, ghostlike forms in the
distance are clumps of woods. Rest in the
village of ............ . Men think it necessary to
make a lot of noise to disturb the natives. A
few look out of windows. March again into
village of ............ . Rest outside a graveyard.
Then out into the open for two laps. It is
drizzling and so dark that I cannot see the
movement of my feet, or my hand before my
face. I do not know that there is anyone ahead
of me. I must ask and watch till there is only a
blur ahead of me. A fearful strain on the eyes.
I shut my eyes. Push out my feet. I am
fortunate they land safely. Put out my hand to
touch Rubin, who marches besides me. Many
times I drop far behind. Woe to the man who
falls out to-night. He will not be found until
morning. When we rest, I sit on my steel
helmet, which I should have worn but I have
troubles enough and I carry it in my hand. On
we go through the darkness. I do not know
what impels us, what guides us. Tramp,
Tramp, Tramp. Song is sung. The man ahead
stops, because ahead of him is a man who
stops. His back almost touches my body
before I am aware of motion ahead having
stopped. Rain is so cold it almost freezes.
Body so warm from exertion that every pore is
open. A flash of light from an officer's lantern,
a matter of consuming interest. Where is it and
what else is there? Tired from broken pace,
sleepy, I yawn while marching. Rest outside a
hospital, many buildings in an enclosure. Off
again. Houses, one, then two, then three
stories. It must be a city. RR tracks. Guarded
lights, pavements, shop windows. We are
home once more. Inpatient because another
company is billeted before we are. Almost to
end of city till we stop. Smell horse, a big pile
of brick before us. Sound of running water. Up
an incline to floor above. Men asleep. Wake
them as we move to bunks, with a bed pack on
each. Undo packs, lie down on a damp bed,
covered by a wet blanket, in wet clothes.
Coffee comes. Never before has coffee tasted
so good. I am asleep between the time my cup
is taken away from me and the time it comes
back filled. Dirt, dust, smell of horse and
damp mud. A hard bed. If the women at home
could have seen their boys tonight, would war
continue? Men sleep on the floors too. A bolo
issued to me. What will I do with it? I am not
told. I wish I had never seen it.