Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 12 May 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 


Sun. May 12, 1918
Weather: Cloudy, Cold
Health: Good
Concert by band for all Battalion
Up at 6:45. Breakfast. Oatmeal, bread, butter,
coffee. Raining as usual on Sunday. Clear for
a while. Begin day's work by removing
clothing from Barrack Bag, taking out what I
need for pack. Go out in field to work. Barn
crowded. All working space taken up by other
men. Fold blankets. Get all tobacco and toilet
articles I have in bag between first and second
blankets, so as not to be seen if inspection is
held. Disposition of all my things almost
decided when Lieut. comes with order to take
out suit of underwear, one blanket and OD
shirt. Cans and OD shirt to be taken away.
Blanket and underwear to be rolled up small in separate bundle and labeled with name of
owner and organization. Take out things as
ordered except for shirt. Leave that in pack. It
begins to rain, which stops proceedings until I
can find a dry spot to work in. Clears again.
Finish rolling pack. Quite heavy. Barrack bag
ready to be turned in. Ordered to fall in with
packs. Question arises whether coats or
slickers are to be worn. Conflicting orders.
Finally decided neither. Arrive for formation
after company has been dismissed. A good
laugh. Have a little time to write. Read what I
wrote to Leah yesterday. Decide to tear it up,
start anew. Cans taken away. Write until
11:30. I am tired, take a nap. Do not hear mess
call blow. No one awakens me. Up with a start
to find barn empty. Look at my watch. Just in
time to make it. Hurry, for I am hungry.
Dinner. Boiled beef, potato, bread, coffee.
Meat too tough to eat. Formation announced at
which blouse, dress shoes, campaign hat will
be turned in to Supply Sgt. after which men
will form again to sign the payroll. I go up.
Sgt. McWhinney asks if I must report to Batt.
Hdqrs. I understand him to say I am wanted
there, so I make haste to report to the Sgt.
Major. He does not know who wants me. Go
back for explanation. I have misunderstood.
Look at payroll sheet on table. Ask Lieut. why
it must be signed again. Answer is as I
expected. Data in remarks column
unsatisfactory. Paymaster will not OK. Haight
later attempts to convince me that fault was
mine. I cannot resent inference. He is a
Corporal. Some day, perhaps, I will let him
know his place. Sign payroll. Note that all
remarks contained therein have been worded
anew but not quite up to what paymaster
requests. Haight is a very lazy man. An hour
to myself in which to finish my letter to Leah.
Another formation to draw ammunition. 100
rounds each, not 200 as originally announced.
Barrack bag and blanket rolls turned in taking
up another good hour of our time. German
planes sighted high up. Anti-aircraft guns try
for them, unsuccessfully. Our move formation
announced for 5 o'clock. Write a letter to
Mama. Retreat at which first Lieut.
commanding in Captain's absence sets a new
fashion in doing parade rest. He has his hands
behind his back until it is brought to his
attention by titters of boys and fellow officers.
Takes it quite good-naturedly. Supper. Cheese,
bread, apple, jelly, coffee. Chill canteen.
Company advised to do so by Lieut. Word is
passed around that it is best to sleep fully
clothed. We leave very early in the morning.
Finish writing. Mail my letters. Find that field
kitchen is being made ready for shipment with
company. Think for a time that means we will
walk entire journey, camp out at night, cook in
field. It has grown very cold, damp, chill. I
write outside until I grow cold and darkness
gathering, I decide to go to bed. No blankets at
all. One is in pack, another in blanket roll,
third in barrack bag. Spread my slicker on
straw, put on my overcoat, go outside to finish
a pipe. See an OD blanket which no one
claims. Take it for my own use. Lie down.
Wait for Reilly to come back from next
village. I have asked him to bring me some
cake. Kronenberg comes in with some figs of
which he gives me a generous handful. Reilly
brings back some biscuits. Share them with
the boys. Talk for a while. Cover ourselves
with the single blanket. Try to sleep. It is too
cold and damp. My feet are like ice. Toes
numb, My body is warm, almost perspiring.
Toss about restlessly. Manage to snatch a few
winks at intervals. A rat disturbs my slumbers
too. Runs around and scratches. Somewhere
near our heads. Not a sound heard of firing all
day, except by our own men nearby, but
around 12 midnight a few scattered rumblings
are heard. I have occasion to go outside not
long thereafter. See flashes of light on the
horizon to the South. A sight unfamiliar to me
in these parts was a cloudless sky with myriads of stars. Discern a few shooting stars.
Booming continues for an hour. Little
intensity. I cannot fall asleep again for more
than an hour, which I spend in dreams and
picturing Leah at home, wishing that I were
with her or she here with me, wondering what
she and baby are doing. I say a fervent prayer
to God to take good care of them for me and
of me for them. Manage to get an hour's solid
sleep, apparently, for I did not hear an air raid,
heavy, in which bombs were dropped which
woke most of the men and shook our barn.
Anti-air gun and searchlight get busy, making
more noise. I do not hear a thing (No air
activity worthy of note). During the day I had
three glasses of milk. I have given Madame a
bottle of camphorated oil which I cannot take
with me. Other boys make all kinds of
presents to her. She regrets that we leave.