Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 20 June 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:



Thu. Jun. 20, 1918
Weather: Warm, Showers
Health: Good
Hike 12 kilometres to ..........
Up at 8:00. No formalities to be observed.
Breakfast ready a good while. Were it not for
a rattling mess kit, many of us would have
slept much longer. There are no details
wanted, therefore I can go about my morning
toilet feeling easy that my plans will not be
disturbed and I need not hurry. Breakfast,
bread, bacon, butter (real Am. stuff), coffee.
Enough of everything to satisfy the most
ravenous appetite. I wash and shave, then go
towards Main Street. At every turn I make,
one of the boys asks me to lend money. My
accounts this month are larger than ever, due
to our billets being in two big towns this week. Buy fruit and a newspaper. Caught in a
shower, while I am close to shelter, giving me
an opportunity to read. When it is again clear,
I walk cautiously up and down outside of
jewelers casting side glances at windows,
trying to see a card displaying wedding rings. I
cannot see any, but realizing the job must be
done sooner or later, I screw up my courage
and walk in, boldly. Ask for what I want in
English, explaining with difficulty that I am a
man who wants to buy a certain kind of ring,
usually worn by a woman. Madame expresses
surprise, blushingly, and pulls a card from a
case, which was directly before my eyes. I feel
ashamed of myself. Put nervousness down as
cause for my lack of observation. All the rings
I can see are of some yellow metal, not gold.
No explanations are necessary and as I cannot
understand anyhow, I make a quick decision
to take one, if the price is fair. 6 Frs. is asked.
I try on rings until I find one that fits me and
prepare for a quick exit. I am afraid of
consequences of being seen by any of our
men. But once outside, I grew braver and do
not hide my fingers. I want to see other end of
town before I go back. Meet Ellsworth, a
married man whom I can confide in, if
necessary, for I have a wild idea I ought to tell
what I have done. He wants a pipe but has not
the price. I go with him and lend him enough
to make his purchase. Go home intending to
read newspaper and nap before Mess. Caught
in middle of road in a heavy shower. Drenched
by time I get to shelter, which begins to leak.
Driven away, I go on and I do not stop until I
reach quarters. Water runs off my slicker into
my leggings and socks. My knees are wet.
Thus I lie down to read, holding my ringed
finger so that it is plainly visible to everybody.
No one sees or notices it. My fears vanish and
I feel quite at home in my new possession.
Read until mess. Boiled beef, potatoes, bread,
coffee. Display ring prominently while I peel
potatoes. No notice paid to me. I decide that I
am proof against detection. Lie down to sleep
again for a few minutes. Out to try to purchase
something of lace for Leah and baby.
Monsieur Paul is in the store. He takes up too
much of Madame's time, so I go away. Back to
bed, sleep with a blanket ever my head to
guard against being disturbed by flies, till
4:OO. Then write until supper. Boiled beef,
potato, bread, coffee. Again fill canteen, roll
pack, police around my bunk, wait for
command to assemble. Formation at 7:00 to
take check. Dismissed for an hour or so. Make
a thorough tour of University grounds. See
nothing of historical interest, excepting
inscriptions dedicated to warriors and Jeanne
de Arc. Munch nuts. In a room in our own
building I find a room with many excellent
cartoons and pictures. Wait upstairs, joining in
singing and whistling. Assembled at 8:30.
Whole battalion off in record time. Our
Captain, acting Major. Wearing helmets and
slickers. McKeon already drunk, falls out of
rank for another drink and does not come
back. Seen to go by Sgt., who does not
interfere. It is murky and cloudy. Two hot to
wear helmet. I disregard orders and take it off.
Cheered going through town. Blessed by an
old woman on outskirts, as we pass into main
road. Another battalion comes in to take up
quarters just vacated by us. A battalion of
Iowans pulls in. Slurring remarks cast upon us
by them engender bad feeling and give rise to
use of much bad language. We promise to
show them up. Rest after 1 hour. Capt. is in a
hurry. We are up again in 10 minutes. Second
hike through .........., and mostly uphill,
skirting feet of mountain and into pine and
birch forests, where it is almost as dark as on
Monday night's march. This time only a seven
minute rest. Along a road screened to left,
with camouflage and barbed wire behind,
which is artillery. No village in sight. I assume
we will spend the night in trenches. A five
minute rest. Smell horse. Into a wood dotted with lights. Met by billeting officers. We think
these are our quarters. No rest yet for our
weary bones. Hear a bell, which may be a gas
alarm. It is a church bell. We are in town. A
square, then a narrow lane to barracks at end
of village. Our scouts and our signalmen are
there. Charlie Pugh is there. He has not been
gassed. Black is there. He is not killed. Mud is
three inches deep for flooring. Bunks in
squares containing 4 each. All those with hay
bedding already taken by the time I get in.
Smells like the devil from the damp. Do not
relish prospects of sleeping on heavy wire,
which cuts into body. It begins to rain so I
cannot go out to find hay. Unroll pack and
manage to get a handful of damp grass and put
it across two upper bunks and team up with
McGuire, who has just come in after falling
out an march. Become sick, take two tent
halves for bedding and two blankets for cover.
Lie down to wait for hot coffee. None comes.
Kitchen has been lost. Try chocolate. I am
cold and disgusted with everything. I am
trying to sleep and men who were at the front
are telling lies about their experiences. Two
distinct groups contradicting each other. If
these are American barracks, give me English
billets or tents. A disgrace to our wealthy
nation. It rains all night. Lulled to sleep about
3:30 by cannonading, a forgotten sensation.
Subdued but not far distant from what men
who have been to front tell us.