
Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 2 June 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:


Sun. Jun. 2, 1918
Weather: Fine, Warm
Health: Good
BABY two months old today. May God
spare her for us and keep her and Leah
in good health.
Up at 6:45. Have had a good night's rest. Feel
much refreshed. Wash. Breakfast. Bacon,
bread, coffee. A poor meal. System of feeding
by platoon not a success, in our platoon at
least. Non-coms get their bellies full but
privates go hungry. If a man asks for more to
eat or attempts to get any by deceit, he is
abused and sworn at, sometimes for the same
thing that the non-coms do. I write a letter to
Sam Friedman, before I go to work, all but a
few lines. In office before Fox arrives.
Manage to make good progress. Keep well
ahead of Fox at all times, arranging so I can
write a few letters in afternoon. Many officers
in during forenoon. Gas Lt. Beers among them
but seems to have forgotten about general
orders about wearing gas masks. 10 and 10:30
comes and goes without mention of hateful task being made. Finish all but E. Co. roll
before leaving for lunch. Hard tack, bully beef
stew, lime juice, a new thing on the bill of
fare. It is a good cooling drink. Finish letter to
Sam and write to Mama while I rest after
lunch. Back to office at 1:30. Supply Sgt.
Morten busy compiling statement of rations on
hand for Lt. in charge. There is something in it
which puzzles him greatly. We are not very
welcome. Rather than disturb him I think it
advisable to go outside to do my work. I could
do very little upstairs under the circumstances
because he is tearing his hair and swearing
like a trooper. Sit on stone steps at entrance to
Hdqrs. in hot sun. I take off my hat to get the
full benefit of it. Fox complains but stays like
an obedient lad until I find it entirely too hot
for comfort. Look about for a shady spot. Find
one, though no comfortable spot to sit down.
Try it for a few minutes. Both of us complain.
Fox goes upstairs to ascertain if Sgt. has
finished his work. We have the room to
ourselves. They have gone. Write a new letter
to Etta. Borrowed paper. A small item to crow
about, but even a piece of paper has high value
here and if I can save a sheet out of my own
stock, I feel as if I have done something to be
proud of. How easily a man becomes small.
Write to Leah. Fox has caught up with me. It
is necessary to go on with my work. Stay with
it until 5 o'clock. Get to billets in time for
mess. Cheese, jam, bread, coffee. Told that I
have been assigned to corporal Rist's squadron
1st platoon. Glad that I have finally been taken
out of the 3rd, composed mostly of rowdies.
What is more, it has always been my wish to
someday belong to the 1st, a nicer, more
intellectual set of boys. It is perhaps well to
move to the area they occupy. Since they have
been in quarantine on account of Al
Ferguson's case of anthrax, they have pitched
tents in the field. I would much prefer to tent.
Sgt. Greenstein sends for me. Tells me that he
would like to have me attend to whatever
sketches it will be necessary to make when out
on work which requires it. I consent gladly.
Chat with him for a few minutes. Cpl. Haight
comes along. Tells me with a tone of finality
that Co. goes into action Saturday morning.
Says that he will go with company instead of
doing office work. He is elated at the prospect
of going into action. I become very much
excited. Ask Sgt. if anyone in his platoon is
looking for a bunkie. Find that Reagan is
without a partner. Agree to come down about
nine and pitch a tent with him. To hide my
feelings I do not stay to hear more from
Haight. Much disappointed that what I most
dread (the probability of being in trenches on
my wedding anniversary) seems about to be
realised. I summon my courage to the task of
finishing Leah's letter. Try very hard not to let
letter betray anything of what I feel. It has
been a cheerful letter up to this point. I
succeed fairly well in finishing it in the same
strain as it began. Spend another half hour
writing. Then get together my belongings. A
difficult job to find it all. During excitement of
yesterday's expected inspection of billets most
of my things have been thrown about or
hidden. Reilly aids me and promises to carry
some of my load to new quarters. Blankets and
wearing apparel, pack carrier, gun, steel
helmet on head, I move out. No parting
formalities. Do not owe anybody a word of
thanks. Reilly carries, shoes, shelter half, mess
kit and a few other small articles. He turns me
over to Reagan with a recommendation for
sobriety and good habits. Almost dark. Reagan
busy. Lie down until he is ready to get down
to pitching our tent. Dougherty, next tent, is
telling men of our coming movements, in
particulars similar to what I have been told by
Haight. I do not corroborate nor deny what he
tells. Put up our tent. Chat with Reagan and
Dougherty for half an hour after. Turn in with
intentions of going to sleep at once. Reagan
has a bad headache, which does not permit him to sleep. Therefore he keeps me awake for
almost two hours talking on general topics. I
make mention of what I have been told
concerning coming movement. He is
dumbfounded. Remains silent almost long
enough for me to fall asleep. Recovers his
speech again. I have to bid him goodnight.
Sleep well. I dream of him and a Kosher meat
butcher. I have been too busy to know what
has been going on during the day. I do not
remember hearing the report of a single gun
and as for airplanes, I cannot recall seeing or
hearing any except one which hovers over us
at night while we talk in our tent. It is quite
cold and damp. Have a little difficulty with
blankets. My few spare minutes during the day
taken up exclusively with thoughts of Cecilie
and Leah. It occurs to me to caution Leah to
take good care of baby during the hot summer
months to come. I am a bit worried by
thoughts of how periods of heat effect babies.