Author: Thomas James Richards.
Date: 6th March 1916.
Nationality: Australian.

March 6th, 1916. Tuesday. Morning 9 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. Squad Drill and Physical Drill:-- A whole lot of time was spent in checking the bumping and gaps that occurr while on the march or in changing alignment of almost any kind. While on the march is is often necessary to move from fours to two and even single file. When getting back into two or fours always halt or mark time in front so as to allow the back men to get into their places in comfort and in a good humour then see that they all move off together at the command "Quick March". Especial notice must be taken of the blank file in the forming of fours. I learnt quite a lot of points about squad drill and also physical drill. Afternoon. A lecture on Map Reading by Major Harris from 2 p.m. until 3 p.m. Then followed the making of a sketch in one own fashion only that it must include the features lay down by our instructor, such as a Road crossing a River, a Railway crossing the river with a tunnel and cutting, a village with Wells, Church and Post Office, Trenchs with wire and communication trenches as well as anything else one wishes to insert. At 4 p.m. musketry with rifles by our instructor, He went over the rifle carefully and pleasingly. 5 p.m. a lecture on "Trench Warfare" by Major Harris. Taking for his main lines the following:-- No. 1   Protection             (a) Advanced posts.            (b) Patroles.  "      2   Reports and Sketches.  "      3   Mopping up.                  (a) sentry posted on each dugout and cellars.                  (b) clear up dugouts.                  (c) Search for Machine Gun positions.                  (d)      "          "       "  Mines.  "       4    Consolidation                  (a) conversion of trench and construction of new                     line.  - 8 -                  (b) communication trenches.                  (c) fortification of forward and strong posts.                  (d) bomb blocks.                  (e) dumps.                  (f) dugouts. No.  5   Connection.  "      6   Exploitation (fighting patroles
                                     (tactical points  "      7    Information:--documents and prisoners.   "     8    Salvage:--cleaning up etc. The Major started by explaining that the formation of a platoon or company in attack is now undergoing alteration and can not be clearly dealt with just now. After a trench is captured, however, procetion must at once be considered and carried out. This will be done chiefly by pushing  advanced posts ahead and in turn protecting them by patroles. These advanced posts may be required to be be connected to maks up a new firing line as the enemy will have the artillery range of same to perfection. Patrols should be accompanyed .by an officer who will make sketches and take notes to hand into the Coy. commander, also, he must be clear in his detailing of the position occupied by his platoon. The Coy. commander in turn will must report to Br. Hdqs. and if possible submit sketches, in a rough way. These sketches can be made up before the attack commences and then be filled up afterwards. Later on a more complete  report will be sent in by Coy. commander. Moppers up must look carefully about for dugouts post a sentry and then get busy clearing them out. Another party of moppers up must look for machine gun positions (hidden probably) and keep a sharp out look for wires which may be connected with mines. Care must be taken in holding an enemys fire trench. Firstly the artillery will bombard it, and it may not on the other hand hold a good fire position. So that is most cases it is vantageous
to make a new line altogether in advance. A strong post is not necessarily forward of the line, it may be behind as long as to field of fire is good and will enable a counter attack to be checked. Block up the enemys communication trench for 40 yards, so - 9 - that he cannot throw bombs, with old wire or anything that will take a lot of digging out again. Put a squad of bombers against the block and behind them a Lewis gun to prevent the enemy crossing
the block. Defensive tactics are the basis of what consolidation really means. A good supply of bombs must be on hand. Exploitation:--Prisoners have often stated that the British have missed big opportunities by not pushing further ahead when attacking. Therefore it is essential to exploit the ground ahead before settling down. Salvage:--This would come in later by collecting carefully all equipment and loose material to prevent wastage and form dumps. 