Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 18 July 1918.

Nationality: Australian

Text:

Thu. Jul. 18, 1918
Weather: Raining, Hot
Health: Good
Throndsen calls me at 7. I have breakfast of
six or seven pancakes, syrup, bread, jam,
coffee, eggs. Take a rest and smoke a pipe,
home style before I go to work. For water, and
on my way back take a handful of wood, bit
supplies for Eddie and manage to get more
wood. Wash the dishes, sweep the floor in
both kitchen and dining room, clean tables,
refill hot water tank and my day's work is
practically done. Think it is a good plan to
wash towels and a few napkins. If the officers
eat so well, they should have napkins, which
can be procured so easily. They are not much
soiled. It will be an easy matter to wash them.
I do that including a tablecloth among the
linens, quite a large one. I have my doubts if I
will be able to accomplish the feat. With good
hot water, I quickly make a passable job of
them, rinse wash in cold enter and am ready to
hang out for drying. A shower comes up
again. There has been a heavy one from 7 to 8,
which has wet everything, and now it seems as
if it will rain all day. At any rate, my duties for
the morning are finished. 1, 2, 3 heavy
explosions in the direction of the lines. There
is only the shortest possible hiss before the
shell is detonated. Seems to me like Fritz is
sending them to the boys in the front line. I
stop work, sit on the window sill to listen in
which direction they are going. Decide it is
our guns shelling some very close position
within the enemy lines. That ends the
hostilities in the morning, with the exception
of aeroplanes up observing shellfire. To my
room to write by the windows. I have a chair,
the sill is my table and I look out upon one of
the most beautiful rose bushes in the world. It
is a big one, almost a tree, trained to spread
out like an umbrella. There is a little more fuss
than usual attendant upon dinner. Get water
for the Captain's bath at 12. He does not get
out of bed until 12:30. Takes a long time to
perform his ablutions. Late in getting
downstairs. Dinner is steak, French fried
potatoes, onions, peas, currant pie, tea. I broil
my steak on a little griddle, which has been
found in one of the closets, and make one of
the tastiest morsels of meat I have ever eaten.
There is work to do serving and running
errands until 3:30, after which I wash the
dishes, sweep the floor, etc. until 4:00, at
which time I am off for the afternoon. Write
for half an hour, finishing work at hand and
take a nap. No one disturbs me until 6:00.
Have had an excellent nap. I get up of my awn
accord when I hear shells by the hundreds
going up towards Germany. What I cannot
understand is why I hear no reports. They sing
along "Wheeee, Wheeee" and all that can be
heard, when it is naturally expected their
journey is at an end, is an occasional shell
sound. I wonder whether these are gas shells
that are being sent. I heard something this
morning that gas of American manufacture
was being used with telling effect. It is of such
strength that it eats leather. Also hear that
1800 Germans were taken prisoners by our
boys. So, I wonder if this can be more of that
gas to take advantage of a wind that is in our
227favor and promises to be for the rest of the
day. It is a mournful sound to hear. One that
suggests suffering that goes with it. I lie in bed
for a matter of five minutes or so, but I must
get up. That sound is getting on my nerves.
Supper will be served shortly, for 4 as usual.
At the last minute company comes, Captain
Handy, to look over positions which he takes
over. Throndsen goes up in the air. It is still
worse when another Lt. comes. There are now
prospects that the servants get no supper. They
do away with all the potatoes, leaving for us
some of the best meat I ever tasted, peas,
prunes, tea, bread and jam. All this was much
delayed. After officers are done, Capt. sends
for me. Asks me how I feel. OK. He has been
directed by Rgtl. authority that I am to be put
to work outdoors. He wants me to get my arms
and follow him to his new hdqrs. I see that he
is in trouble of some kind regarding me, so I
consent. Finish my supper, called for again, to
tell me that I must move and when I return
there is some ammunition to be carried. I do
not like the prospect. I finish some prunes and
tea and put all my things into my shelter half
and move up to the chateau, where the boys
are, which is disagreeable in the extreme and
which so far I have been fortunate to avoid. I
make the best of it. I will obey orders and
complain afterward. I am dreadfully worried
about the consequences. I like the Capt.,
wonder how Rgtl. Hdqrs. got to know about
me and put it down to the letter I wrote to
Leah about the Englishman in which I
probably said something to which exception
was taken and for which I shall have to pay
dearly. Dreadfully sad about it. I, the Papa of
Cecilie, a prisoner, first to shield another and
now because he has committed a sin. I do not
know what to do. If I refuse to take
punishment, I will be dealt with severely. Can
I ask Leah and Cecilie to do without me to
save my honor? I decide that I cannot. It is
better that I suffer degradation than make them
suffer for an instant. Not if I love them will I
refuse to accept punishment. I get a bunk in
the hall upstairs. Go back for the things I left.
Told we may rest for the night. That is good.
Stay apart from the men by sitting on my bed
to go through my letters to see if there is any
further reference made to my condition in
them. I do not like the tone of any of them and
tear up two of them. There is no time to
rewrite them tonight. Burn the scraps
carefully. My imagination now places me in
the middle of an international scandal. I go
about it as though everything about me would
be examined for evidence that will prove I am
a spy or some such criminal. I am truly in a
panic. I do not know what I am doing or what
brought it all about, when I finally remove my
things and go to bed with a feather mattress,
which I found in the next room, as bedding
underneath. It is just as good as no covering at
all over the heavy wire network. My side,
back and ribs are sore, sore from sleeping on
the bars, stops the circulation of the blood. I
cannot sleep. As I say my prayers, the order
comes for everybody out to carry ammunition.
I decide to feign sleep, but in a minute I
change my mind. I must be honest now of all
times, since I ask a favor of the Lord. I get up
at once, go downstairs with the others. When
we are most of us assembled, the order comes
not to mind but to go back to bed. I remain
awake for another smoke and to be alone with
my unbearable thoughts. Oh how it hurts
Leah's husband and Cecilie's papa to be a
prisoner in disgrace. My head bursts from
thinking and brooding.