
Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 15 June 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:



Sat. Jun. 15, 1918
Weather: Warm, Raining
Health: Good
Up at 5:45. A bugle blows somewhere at 5
o'clock. Our camp is astir. Go to sleep again,
but disturbed by SOS making preparations to
leave. Reveille. Breakfast. Bacon, bread,
coffee. Our American bacon does not compare
with the British. Inspection at 8:00. My gun
not in the best of condition. My personal
appearance somewhat neglected. Lt. C. looks
our platoon over. I feel assured that I will pass
muster. He looks at me sharply for a second
while I stare into space. Forgives me perhaps
because he saw me at least make an effort to
comply with standard while I worked the night
before. We were out with packs, mine
camouflaged, without shelter half, because it
threatened rain. This led us to believe we were
going out to drill and no greater surprise could
be given to us than to hear Sgts. command
"Dismissed". We could not believe our ears
and voted our Army a fine institution. Plans
were being made to spend the day as we
fancied. A whistle blows which dissipates
them all. Drill at 8:20. Sun is trying hard to
come out and has partially succeeded. We go
to a large hay field, newly cleared. March
down road at attention. This is all new to me.
Step is strange, gun on shoulder a new
sensation. Resigned to what is before me. I
will do my best and pay strict attention. Close
order drill on field. Company split into three
sections, one of which continues with close
order. Two work out a problem in formation
for attack, approved by our COs. Some of our
men have had a little of it, at last station where
I overheard some conversations on the subject,
which led me to believe it was a very complex
one. I do not find it so. I readily get into the
swing of it. A long rest period, lying prone on
the ground to be ready for the call to attention,
because Major is expected. My interest lies in
watching farmer in adjoining field cutting hay
with an American mowing machine. One of
his horses has its ears painted red and a fancy
headpiece, probably for protection against
flies. Non-coms now take platoons for combat
formation drill until 11, then a half hour of
close order drill. Company can be excelled by
a lot of rookies who have the proper spirit. At
half past eleven mess line is formed, but mess
is not ready until 12:30. I write in the
meantime and find a place in the line through
the favor of Reilly. Dinner. Canned roast beef,
boiled potatoes, coffee, bread. Back again to
the Upton days, when I had more to eat than I cared for. Lt. announces mail will be accepted
in afternoon. Formation at 2:30, with packs at
rifle range. It begins to rain at 1. Tents ordered
put up. Men dig trenches around tents. I, who
have put in raindays at .......... and found that
an unnecessary precaution, have time to write.
Rubin comes in. Disturbs me. 2:30 goes by.
No orders. 3 o’clock is the hour set. Men wait
and argue with the 1st Sgt. It is madness to go
out in the rain. Orders are orders. F Co. returns
from range. Their Lt. advises we stay home.
He is heard with favor. A wild cheer at
dismissal. Free for day. Continue with letter to
Nuck. I rewrite it often. Twice, because rain
drops blot paper, so that it looks as if I were
crying. Once, on account of error. Rubin reads
a few items from his diary to me. Charmed
with them. A description of a sunrise and a
sunset while at sea. I mail a letter to Leah and
to Mama. Supper. Canned salmon, potatoes,
tea, bread. Debate advisability of leaving some
for later. Get a piece of chocolate. Write. It
has stopped raining, I have been in my tent
most of time since arrival. l will go out for a
walk to stretch my legs. Will look for some
chocolate which I long for. Get no further than
25 ft. up the road when I see a man picking
cherries from a tree in private grounds. If he
can, without being disturbed, why not I?
Delicious, ripe red sweet berries. Handfuls. A
privilege to pluck then. A privilege granted by
God. After a while take even partly ripe
berries. Try a few from another tree. I am full
to bursting. Go up the road midway between
two villages to look at a picture from the road.
Woods for a background from left to right.
Village, orchard, a field of green, one brown
patch, an enclosed cemetery, field, orchard,
village. A glow of splendid gold all over by
the setting sun. I would go out but I have
writing to do. Wash leggings. In tent to write.
Rations wagon comes in and our cook who
has been to hunt up extra blanket rolls. He has
his. For me he brings only raincoat which has
sheltered him. Yes, he has seen mine. In a
bundle in an open field wet by rain. I must go
for it tomorrow surely. I want Leah's letters.
Our men have returned from schools. Some
from hospital too. Lt. and Sgts. having a
discussion on best methods to kill with a
bayonet. Make bed. Tent is very dry in spite of
rain. Rubin is talkative. So am I. There is a
world of things I want to say. Rubin goes to
see a friend in another street. Lt. Cook scolds
men who come in or walk about after taps,
which has just been sounded, so Rubin is
trapped and sleeps with three other men where
he visits. I wait and go to sleep at once, while I
say my prayers for Leah and the end of the
war to come. Not a sound of strife except for
reports from rifle range. It rains again during
the night. I must get out once.