Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 17 April 1918.
Location: At Sea in Danger Zone.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Wednesday April 17, 1918
Weather: Cloudy, Cold
Health: Bad neuralgia in morning
At Sea, In Danger Zone
Up at 6:00. Up on deck for Reveille. Remain
on deck for smoke. Downstairs to wash and
make bed. Lie down until breakfast. I have a
splitting neuralgia headache. Nose in same
condition. Take some menthol jelly for
clearing it. No improvement. Breakfast.
Porridge, fish, bread and butter, coffee.
Warmth of it very gratifying. Take a look
about on deck. Cruiser has left us, evidently
some time during the night. Now riding alone
in close order. See some gulls and flying
fishes. Forced to go below to lie down and
hold my head. Captain comes and orders every
man on deck. Asks me what’s wrong? Tell
him but he insists orders are carried out. Try to
find a spot where there is no wind. Get behind
donkey engine and lie down, head well
covered. Wind comes around corners and
causes me distress. Take a chance of being
caught and punished and go downstairs.
Medical officers and ship's officers in hold for
inspection, no other visitors to be feared. I lie
down and get a little relief in sleep. News
brought down that we have picked up our
convoy. I must go up to see also. Prettiest
sight I ever saw at sea. Most interesting
moment in trip. We immediately proceed to
run faster. Boat makes again as much speed as
before. Ship's name plate put up. Spray
covering decks with water from both sides.
Wind created by motion of ship so great that it
hurts my head. I was going downstairs when
order comes for all men in our company to get
their rifles when names are called. We must
relieve guard company at once. A case of
measles has been discovered in C Company.
Must go into quarantine at once. Guard duty
falling on us next in order. We must relieve
them 4 hours earlier. My name called. Get
rifle and fall in for first relief. Given an inside
post fortunately. Amuse myself watching
officers at mess. Corridor becomes draughty. I
swap a post for one further down aisle. At
2:30 boat drill. Still no relief forthcoming. I
am very hungry. Relief does not come till
3:00. Head- ache has abated. Having that to be
thankful for, hunger is minor matter. Meet a
boy who has apples from canteen. Hold him
up for 2. For a long time I have not had any.
Go to dining hall, where rest of guard is being
messed. Find food all gone. More boys come
in as they are relieved, making 20 in all who
have had nothing to eat since breakfast. Most
of them manage to pick up an apple. Wait and
protest, but ship's officers will not feed us.
Sgts. and Corporals acquaint Captain and 1st
Lts. with situation. They try their best to
procure food for us but fail. Lt. manages to get
some coffee for us. Boys would rather wait
until supper. We steal 4 loaves of bread and
some butter. Have words with Mess attendant.
Outcome after a lecture by Lt. on a soldier's
hardships is that we are given supper half an
hour in advance. We must eat it in a hurry to
make room for regularly assigned men. Bread,
jelly, lima beans and bacon, coffee. Welcome
and good. I do not go to my own mess for
supper. Read for an hour and take a nap. On
guard again from 7-9. Ship rolling and
pitching very much. Vibrations from engines
very much. Uninteresting two hours except for
my thoughts which again are of home.
Relieved. Have an apple and a half and go to bed for 3 hrs. On guard again from 2-4. Clock
set 66 minutes ahead. Sleepy post. Relieved at
4. Go to bed. Head aches again. Restless.