Author: Thomas James Richards.
Date: 13th November 1916.
Nationality: Australian.

November 13th.       Monday. The dishonesty and love for thieving in the Army is striking, but with the transport sections, particularly of Australian units, its a horror. It seems that no man can be reasonably trusted with his mate's rations. Every man for himself seems to be the motto. It is most noxious to me to find the narrowness and unworthyness of most men. Yesterday I posted some 20 letters and Xmas Greetings as well as two cheques to Australia and I feel now free to go on with an article on my visit to London, also my observations at Longueval. It is not 6 a.m. yet and I am on the Flers Road. A huge motor waggon is unloading duckboards and the Tommys in their own particular and peculiar parlance are talking and shouting bad temperedly at one another as they are anxious to get back out of the quarter to their rest. The many batteries of 18-pounders have just commenced to fire rapidly and continuously making a perfect bedlam. - 9 -
The morning is foggy and each of the dozens and dozens of flashes strike out on to the misty atmosphere in flares of light not so vivid perhaps as vicious lightning, but being right up against us as it is it dazzles a fellow and amazes him with its novel picturesqueness and its wonderful intensity and cheers him with the strange feeling of satisfaction that Fritz is getting it hot and strong. These bursts of rapid fire are probably barrages, and can be heard over periods of 25 minutes at different times and in different directions around our horse-shoe position during the day and night. This burst of fire at this moment may be followed up by our infantry in an attack, or maybe it is just a barrage on the German trenches and over on to his communication ways to get him relieving his men from the front line and bring up fresh troops from behind. I would so much love to know what it is but there is no way of finding out. Even the artillery men don't know what they are firing at. They are given the range by figures and set the guns but what for they don't really know. Again to-night an infantry chap swore that many of our own shells fall behind and even into our own trenches and wildly around. The fire has now decreased to a shot every few seconds and individual reports can now be heard after 15 minutes of nothing but a roar and rattle. The day has been dull and passed away without any special note. Just the other day one of the farriers of the 2nd Field Ambulance here in Longueval picked up an old 4-2 shell and although the fellow left Australia with the first contingent, he put that shell into the forge fire to cut away the copper band for a souvenir, after failing with a hammer and - 10 - chisel while cold. He turned away at the fan blowing the fire up when there was a terrific explosion. The forge was in fragments and strangely none of the four men around were injured. There was a bit of the charge remaining.