Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 25 April 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Thursday April 25, 1918
Weather: Fair, Mild
Health: Good
Up at 6:00. Not necessary to march up to
main quarters of company to stand reveille.
Arrangements have been made to take check
in our courtyard thus saving us more than a
half mile walk. Bugle blows for mess. March
up in a body. The line is very long. A half
hour's wait to be fed is the rate of the last man.
Had we tacked on to end of line it would have
taken me until 8:30 to finish breakfast. As I
had planned to take a bath, I have reason to
swear. I did not know that according to plans
each platoon has an opportunity to be at the
head of line. We are second, therefore we
break in near head. In a few minutes I have a
sandwich of bread and crisp bacon, marmalade
and coffee. Back to barn. Run out into field
with a new suit of underwear under my arm,
resolved to take my bath before anything
develops to prevent it. I do not know just how
that ceremony will be performed. There is
only a pump and a wooden tub. Off go my
shoes, socks and breeches and underwear. Fill
tub and get in for a splash. Cold as ice, so cold
I cannot stand in it. Dry lower portion and
dress, then take off shirt and work on upper
part. Rub hard with towel for long time to
guard against cold. Then wash my clothes.
Spread them on grass to dry. So ends my first
rustic bath. Finish in time to hear bugle for
drill. Assemble in main road. March off down
road through fields in direction of small
British camp. Everything there is quiet and in
most perfect order. Calm and air of peace
prevails. We ask for permission to use adjoining field for drill purposes. Consent
given we enter, intent upon impressing
Englishmen about with our prowess. We all
try hard to no purpose. Two Britons who are
engaged in gardening look up slightly and
resume work. A class of signal men do not
even pay attention to us. Our showing is
unusually poor on account of new men in
platoon. They are picked out and drilled by
sergeant while we rest and watch English
system of sending, Morse code, and listen to a
corporal instructing, who I must say knows
how to explain what he wants to teach. Our
boys laugh because they cannot understand
corporal's English. Start back to quarters after
a long rest. Dismissed at 11:30, in time to go
to the village for a drink, after having a few
eggs and bread at farmhouse. Drink only one
glass of porter. Wait for others to buy a round.
We are all warmed up. On end of mess line, an
Italian accuses Reilly, one of trio, of standing
on line for a second time. Sgt. comes up,
questions Reilly, believes him. I corroborate
statement, but Italian continues his abuse until
Reilly lets his fist fly, catching other man a
bad blow over the eye. Blood flows down his
face from cut. He throws his mess kit at
Reilly, who wards off blow. I stop cup with
my hand, which I later discover is cut. Lt.
stops fight. Questions both men. Sees justice
of Reilly‘s act and dismisses him without
punishment. Get our mess. Beef stew and
coffee. No bread. Go down to our quarters
where we still have a bit of bread left from
yesterday. Sit under a tree in field. Reilly does
not enjoy his meal. His hand is hurt. He feels
badly because he has never before struck a
man. He is wrought up over it all day. Write
until 2:30. A formation with gas masks and
steel helmets. Guns jolting against hat make
music. Helmets hot as blazes. We go for a hike
of about 2 miles without a rest. Looked upon
as curiosities by English and Americans we
meet on the road. Boys resent sneers of
Englishmen. Inspection of rifles on road. Fall
out for 15 minutes. March back to quarters.
Dismissed. Change our hats and go back to
main road for retreat. Villagers turn out to
look. Bugle blows call to colors accompanied
by the hens who do not know what to make of
it. They cackle in a horrible discord which
creates laughter that cannot be subdued. I try
my best to contain myself but I lose control. I
am reprimanded. Supper, bread, beef, jam,
coffee. Sit in cart to write. Birds, some of
which sing, some of which whistle are my
only companions. A wonderful evening. Go to
bed at 9:00. In the morning the guns in the
distance boom away at a fierce rate. Dozens of
aeroplanes going toward front in early
morning and in late afternoon. One turns and
curvettes in the air. I thought for a moment it
was winged. Officers much interested in
operations. Many rumours about of a great
Allied victory. English newspapers come into
camp. Snatched up greedily. Drink a glass of
milk which cost a penny fresh from the cow.
We can have some everyday.