Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 23 January 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Wed. Jan. 23, 1918
Weather: cold, clear, windy Health: good, a cold sore appears
Up at 6:00. Reveille under arms. Breakfast, butter, bread, coffee, hash. Make bed, head turned other way to comply with orders Empty and refill fire buckets and reserve can. In Recreation Room begin practicing drill for competition. Lieut. Cook most anxious to have 3rd platoon in game. He maps out a plan of work, consisting of simple movements, but which if done in unison look most pretty from standpoint of audience, including besides manual and marching, loading drill, a series of physical exercises, which are easy and graceful. He gives us our choice of what we think we can do best. He promises us a blowout at Terrace Gardens if we make good. Work until 12. Mess, boiled beef, horseradish sauce, potato, meat tough, coffee. In Mess Hall for drill and exercise. Then for the surprise of the day. Out for a hike in the snow. Sink twice in drifts 6 inches deep. On way back, Lieut. Cook stumbles in a hole. I pick him up. Everybody exhausted and wringing wet through. Retreat immediately after. Issued barracks bag, undershirt, laces. Letter from Leah. Supper, macaroni, prunes, coffee. Write letter. Over to half barracks. Play poker, 7 handed game, 25 & 50. Win about $4. Quit game because I catch Kaplan cheating. Tell Sam about it later. To YMCA to buy things and to send home civilian clothes, which I have had here over 7 weeks. To PE for drink and crackers. Back to barracks. Write and read. Finish “The Game.” In hall, Lt. Wilhelm, our officer of the day, provokes laugh at expense of sentinel. Bed at 11. Sweet gives me a hint that my application for exemption has been returned unfavorably decided. Thompson tells me about his case which has appealed. His talk also discloses that he has knowledge of my case. Hear that no auto passes will be issued this weekend because men took advantage of privilege and returned on evening trains. Coal situation of railroad not having improved no doubt we will not go home this week. I place my order for 6 tickets for regimental show. Indications seem to me that we will not go overseas for some time to come in spite of fact that famous “Blue Bag” was issued to us. Everybody jests about going South and going across. No one scared. Slept well.