Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 31 March 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Sun. Mar. 31, 1918
Weather: fair, mild Health: good
In Quarantine
First day of daylight saving season. Clock set ahead one hour.
Up at 5:00. Catholic boys must take Communion in Mess Hall, 6:00. Stir awakens me. While I dress, hear weird droning of voices from below. Wash. Make bed. Fall out for check, roll call. All present. Breakfast. French toast, oatmeal, coffee. Police platoon room and lend a hand to Mess Room. Read newspaper and fall asleep for a half hour. A beautiful spring day, which calls one outdoors. I have a slight headache. Have stopped taking pills doctor sent. Perhaps I only imagine myself ill. Sit on front stoop of barracks and watch boys play indoor baseball. Much fun, but I cannot take interest in game. Visitors begin coming in. Go upstairs. Mendelsohn and I practice a little with signal flags until he is enticed away from me by ball game. Haight, Sweet and MacWhinney, who have never had a holiday are out, because of quarantine. Some of our boys have visitors. Entertain them in firebreak. Others leave quarters in spite of orders to stay within reach. A selfish practice fraught with danger. Bandler, who has been ill for 2 or 3 days, tonsilitis, is taken to base hospital. Boys adjourn the ball game to take part in a little joke which suggests itself to all of them simultaneously. They line the runway leading to curb and, when he comes out, bare their heads and stand at attention. Base drums roll, and boys with rifles present arms. Creepy joke. Bandler, who is a cut-up himself, arranges a little counterplay. He hesitates before running the gauntlet and, when half way to ambulance, has confederate upstairs spill a pail of water directly over Fox, who is drenched to the skin. Kaplan gets a share of it too. Fox takes it like a good sport but when he finds out who did it, which he will eventually, there will be adequate reward meted out. Dinner at 1. Roast pork, spinach, mashed potatoes, apple sauce, coffee. Mendelsohn introduces me to his mother and guest with whom I chat for 5 minutes. Then write to Leah. Take a nap before I finish. Supper. Roast beef, beans, fruit salad, tea. Finish my writing. Wash to cool off.
