Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 8 July 1918.

Nationality: Australian

Text:

Mon. Jul. 8, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Poor
Up at 2:00. Stomach full of gas and knees
weak. I must leave my post twice in one hour,
in charge of men coming back from duty on
posts. It is quiet except for a barrage in the
distance and a few whizzes near us. One thing
that I am worried about though. I am sure that
I hear a gas alarm some place. It is continuous
and without a doubt from a claxton. I am not
taking any chances and will be on the alert.
My belief that if gas is about, one whiff in my
209present state of health will be sufficient to do
considerable damage, and possibly, not being
able to spread the alarm in such case, mean
death or serious injury to men asleep upstairs.
Listen for a long time, so long that had it
really been a gas alarm, it would have been
passed on to our sector by now, so I decide it
is the creaking of the frogs in the pond up the
road. It is a warm, starry, beautiful night. I am
tempted to say my prayers standing under
Man‘s original temple, the sky. Awaken
Conway promptly at 3:30. To bed and long
after, even in my sleep, I worry about guns.
Up at 8:30. Breakfast. Two pieces of toast and
a cup of coffee, which is quite enough for me.
My stomach feels much easier. Ready to
report to the work squad, I am the first to put
in an appearance. Am sent to rout out the
others. Meet Jack Curry in a party of three,
which is part of the work squad. Remainder
comes up and when we are all assembled, Sgt.
looks us over and discovers that Curry and I
have pistols in our belt. He takes them away.
That angers me considerably. A balloon is up
over the German lines, which might see us
wending our way through the boyau, and it is
necessary to bend low all the time. At the
Hdqrs. we are turned over to another Sgt., who
details us to clean out a dugout, which is the
filthiest, most rat infested place I have ever
seen. None of us work too hard. It must be
made an all morning job if possible. I rest
frequently but when I do my mind is most
active. I cannot reconcile myself to being on a
squad considered as being prisoners. The
ordinary, Camp Upton type of work squad
would not be so bad, but with prisoners being
punished for drunkenness and disobedience,
never, not while I have Leah and Cecelie to
urge me to uphold my honor. I stop work as
soon as possible after helping to store cases of
reserve rations. Lie down on bed of pine
branches and fall asleep with my troubles.
Three aeroplanes up directing artillery fire
from trench guns. They are being fired at
generously. We keep under cover to keep from
being struck by falling shrapnel. Boche planes
up to give battle, making the situation
interesting. Mess, which I had expected to eat
with the boys, is brought for us from F
kitchen. Boiled bacon, bread, potatoes, coffee.
Read propaganda, printed in German, sent to
their lines by the French. Walk to the stream
in No-Man's Land to wash the mess kit. One
man there is shaving, others washing clothes
and bathing feet. On way back, (I do not stay
there long) I sit down in an old post, where
there is a copy of the Sat(urday) Eve(ning)
Post to read a political article by I. Gotta. Stay
there until warned that an officer is coming.
Back further to where Frenchmen are. I sit
down on bench at their table to smoke a
cigarette and pass a few minutes in talking
French to a Poilu. We get along famously.
Others come out from dugout. Men of higher
intellect. One has a dictionary. I converse with
the aid of the lexicon for hours, carrying on
quite a conversation uninterrupted by anyone,
until it is time to go back. The other men have
been working all this time. We all take back a
bag of salvaged material, mine containing
wires. I see now just what will be expected of
me, and I realize who I am doing penance for.
Nevertheless it is degrading being on such a
squad, and I resolve not to report again if I can
help it. My gun not returned to me, which
angers me still more. Dump the bag of wire at
kitchen and get back to quarters just in time
for supper. Karo and bread, coffee. I am
questioned and joshed by the boys. I am
miserable enough without that, so I put a stop
to it at once, From then on I stay pretty much
to myself, going upstairs to write at the open
window. I am feeling hot and uncomfortable.
Digestion very poor. Though I am hot and
perspiring, my head is cold. I lie down,
bothered by the flies, put a towel over my
head and struggle to overcome a fever. I am
210slightly delirious. Do not sleep at all. Up again
to fight. I am afraid I have trench fever. S.....,
one of our men, was taken to hospital today,
complaining of that. Look for opportunity to
talk to Lt. He is closeted with officers of 3rd
Battalion, talking over our positions. Put up a
fine battle with indisposition and in an hour or
so I am well enough to write. Lt., Sgt. and
men going out on patrol tonight. Jewelry and
valuables turned over to me. I remain awake
till after 11 o‘clock all alone, for the first time.
Lt. is ingratiating. Up till 9 o‘clock men have
had a bully time singing and throwing things,
as is their way when they go on patrol. May as
well be happy, for tomorrow we may die, Now
all is tenseness and every man has his own
thoughts, which he thinks quietly to himself.
Complain about closeness of room and light,
and display other evidences of displeasure, at
being awakened from a sound sleep to go out
into the night to endanger their lives. When I
put out the light to go to bed, I forget my diary
on the table. Lie awake in bed. There is no
sleep in me. Hear transport in street. MG fire,
shelling. My feverish brain magnifies the
sound to bigger proportions and I continually
wonder why I am not awakened and made to
run across the street to the dugout. A shot is
fired in the street, from a rifle. That I am sure
will eventually turn out to be a warning signal
against gas, yet I make no effort to get up to
investigate. Maloy who has come back from
post, comes into the room. I ask him what the
shot I heard meant. He did not take the trouble
to find out and does not know. I talk to him for
a time, answering his questions about the
dugouts at PA 5, and when he goes to sleep I
find myself in the name condition as before,
magnifying sounds, exaggerating numbers, so
that two men walking in the street below seem
to be an army. A new kind of gun is working
from our side. No one can describe it to me.
Some time during the night the men come in.
They are no doubt talking of their work. As
near as I can recollect, they were trying to
straighten out the casualty list of Germans,
who did the damage, etc. Lurid tales of hard
fighting and defeat inflicted upon the enemy,
with a few losses on our side. But, upon
awakening in the morning, the report is the
same as usual. No activity on the part of the
enemy. We did not go out to look for trouble.
Schlesinger shoots at a rat with a rifle. Did
anyone ever hear of an intelligent grown up
doing such a thing in a house where men are
asleep? It sounds like a bomb explosion, as it
echoes through the empty rooms. Wade, out
sniping, shoots a German similarly employed.