Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 7 June 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 


Fri. Jun. 7, 1918
Weather: Fine, Warm
Health: Good
On hike. ... Kilometres to .......
Up at 5:45. Have slept soundly for an hour.
Business of policing, trying to get water, eggs,
milk, pitching tents, rolling packs. Make mine
as short as possible today. Eat a raw egg,
shave, wash while waiting for breakfast. Lots
of tine for doing things in. No need to wake up
so early. Some of the boys have an
opportunity to get more liquor. Breakfast 8:00.
Beef stew, bread, coffee. Heat of coffee
revives me. I am almost numb from cold on
awakening. Do not eat very much. Worst
enemy on march is a loaded stomach. Police
again. Get water. Bayonets issued. Kitchen
packs up. Company formed, roll call taken.
Two men missing. Bernard and Mason.
Probably asleep in a barn somewhere, too
drunk to get up. Lt. McAllister shakes hands
with non-coms of 1st platoon and bids us
goodbye. He leaves company as per RSO. A
faint hope left that we will entrain. Dispelled
at 9:00 when company moves off, going away
from RR. A rather large village, picturesque
but poor. British lorries abundant. See French
trucks in numbers for first time. Colonel
waiting for us at first turn. Go on up road for a
few hundred yards. Halt and wait for Rgt. to
assemble. Told it would be a long wait.
Strange to say we complain. Why not
permitted to sleep later in morning? Remove
pack. Lie down in tall grass with blouse on,
fall into a doze with sun shining hot upon me.
Wake up in a sweat. Remove blouse but
cannot fall asleep again. Feel somewhat
refreshed. Still very weak. Find difficulty in
breathing. Order to fall in. In coming down
embankment, I lose my balance slightly and
almost faint with effort to recover myself. Had
we been given command to march, I could not
have moved a step then. Wait for 1st Battalion
to pass and 3 companies of our own. We go in
rear of outfit. I sit down, which revives me.
Off at 11. When I step it feels as if I walk on
hot coals. Go on with great effort and resolve
not to let smaller members of squad and
company do better than I. Walk 30 to 35
minutes, fall out for 10. Second stop at 12 near a canteen. I can refresh myself with lime juice
and some chocolate. Boys have time to get
more drink. At roadside, here, is a machine
shop built on trucks. Machines for all kinds of
repair. Hike along dusty roads, through fields
of poppies, sweet peas, corn, rye, wheat, red
clover. We are coming to a downhill path. Till
now road has been remarkably level. At our
feet in the valley directly below us is a village.
A steep hillside, sheep, a belt of trees, a chalk
deposit. The most beautiful sight in France.
An aviation field, beyond, smooth as velvet,
lends charm to the picture. This is the village
of ........ . One more lap and we walk into a
pasture at finish, 2:30. Wagons pull up water
carts, kitchens at our service in a few minutes.
My greatest desire is to bathe my feet. No
stream in sight. All dry from heat. A dirty
ditch by roadside, full of leeches, the only
water available, but we all take off our shoes
and bathe in dirt and mud. What a wonderful
relief. Cooling entire body, getting us back
into good humor. Remove shirt and blouse, lie
down in grass to wait for end of mess line. I
am not hungry. All I want is a piece of bacon,
hard tack and lime juice in particular. Cheese
also given. I do not take any. Mess over, I lie
down in grass again until 4:30. Assembly call
blows. Fall in eagerly. We are all very well
rested. I can walk without feeling blisters. Just
before our first stop we come to a considerable
stream, the first that I have ever been close to
or walked over in La Belle France. It is so
inviting that we all proclaim that we would
have stood hardship of coming this far before
lunch, for the pleasure of a swim in it. Not a
hundred yds. further on is another, shallower,
clearer, a waterfall to add to its charm. Rest to
prepare for a long uphill stretch, gentle but
continuous. E. Co.'s line halts outside
estaminet. Boys want wine. She gives only a
little milk and some water until money
conquers her objections. Nearly 30 bottles of
wine licked up in 15 minutes. Off again. Boys
going well. I was afraid of those who drank. I
push my body along, because little Himpler
and Rubin on either side of me stick. One
place, we come to road which forms a D
semicircle. Instead of taking a cut uphill,
across field along straight line of D, a well
defined path worn by many feet, we go
completely around. It occurs to Del Duca to
sing "All Around the Mulberry Bush", which
saves us from mutiny. Officers smile, proud
that they have such a fine set of men. After our
next rest, just as we can see homes through the
trees, we pass one of the boys of F Co. lying
flat at the roadside, face downward, his
captain watching over him. Hear later that
man died from bleeding heart. Pass through a
short avenue of trees and town is outside. Perk
up marching through town. We go without a
stop into a field near edge of town and pitch
tents. A procedure so rare for Co. E, noted for
fuss, that it must be noted. I limp as best I can,
pitch tent and lie down to rest. I must write. It
is 1 hour to supper. May just as well do that.
With aid of candle, I manage well. Mess.
Bully and rice stew, coffee-red hot. Bathe feet
in what water is left in my bottle and go to
refill bottle. Cart has gone. Get a handful of
figs from Pimpl. Divide with Rubin,
bunkmnte, and fall asleep. I never rolled over
once during entire night. An ideal space for
our tent, slightly uphill. Passing through a
town after noon mess, a gun is working havoc
very close to us. We are aware of the rush of
air after explosion. No airplanes noted during
day.