
Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 18 June 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:


Tue. Jun. 18, 1918
Weather: Fine, Warm
Health: Good
Hike 17 kilometres to ......... . Hike 14
kilometres to ........... . Voices from New
York
Out of bunk at 8:00. I have not slept. It was
the hard and damp. A piece of bread with
butter and coffee for breakfast. We are in an
old brick factory. Another organization
quartered with us. A gas tank to the rear, fields
in front and to the left. City to right. We are an the outskirts. A cold clear brook running
against the wall on side of road. Straighten out
my equipment, which I threw anywhere to get
to bed in a hurry. Wash, shave and brush up a
bit until I feel much refreshed. Ask again for
my blanket roll. Cooks preparing for dinner.
Perhaps I can get to where it is supposed to be
before we move again. I will try. Off through
the city. Shops of all kinds, factories, a
department store, jeweler, printer, butchers.
Our soldiers have possession of the town. Fine
hotels, a wide street, narrow side streets. Meet
Rubin. Commission him to buy me socks and
shoes, hats. Out of town on main road. Ask
directions of Frenchmen to make sure of fast
pace. Pass our resting place of last night. It is a
hospital. Wounded are coming in. What we
thought beautiful last night is ramshackle and
vice-versa. I am sure I will get a lift. What
beautiful country we passed through last night
without knowing it. I would have liked to
march now in the sunlight. Make ........... in an
hour and a quarter. Ask every soldier in town
for my blanket roll. See Sgt. Corras. Sweet,
whom I locate in Rgt. Hdqrs. office, tells me
packs were picked up and taken away last
night. A hard pill to swallow. A fair sized
village. Back at once. Do not let
disappointment detain me. I must go back to
quarters for mess. Again no lift. Men are just
messing. Fine boiled beef, potatoes, bread,
tomato beef broth. A long time since we have
had soup. I am exhausted when I lie down to
rest after dinner. Take my shoes off. Too tired
to sleep, I toss about until 3. Up. On with my
shoes. Armed with a towel, downstairs to
brook to bathe my feet. Cold as ice. Feet
tingle. A blister between toes hurts and bleeds.
Much refreshed nevertheless. Wash a towel
and some handkerchiefs. I have another
important mission to perform. I must keep a
promise to Leah and buy a wedding ring. A
heavy rain and hail shower comes up. Detains
me only a few minutes. Mail a letter to Leah.
Visit YMCA. Want to look into print shops,
but doors are locked. Buy a map. Stuff up with
sweets. Pry into every shop window. Last of
all into the town jeweler's. It is easy to ask for
what I want. Jeweler himself wears one but he
has none in stock. Another disappointment.
Moves for our men at YMCA at 3 and 7.
Behave wonderfully. An open town. But no
one spoils a good record for sobriety for the
day. Confine themselves to purchases of
sweets and caps, leggings, etc. Shopkeepers
reaping a harvest on high prices. Back to bed
for another rest. Up for supper. Beef stew,
bread, coffee. Lie down again until 7. Make
my pack. Chat with 1st. Sgt. of Signal Corps.
Told and shown a map where we are going, by
good authority. Write until order to fall in
comes. I have prayed all day that orders might
be changed. A few absentees at formation. Off
for end of village to wait remainder of
battalion. A beautiful sight. Cool, sun is
setting. Flowers given to us by three young
ladies, who hang over a wall. I fall out to get
one. Reprimanded by Lt. C., so Lt. W. gets
one for me. Men all in fine spirits. Sing songs
full of cheer. Moon comes up bright and clear.
A wonderful wine coloured sunset. Road leads
through woods most of the way. Moon shines
directly on paths. It is as bright as day almost.
At last I have managed well. The ..-th comes
along, back from the line, to rest. An ovation.
They retard our progress. It does not matter.
Hello Mac, Hello Bill. Anyone from Harlem,
Yorkville, Brooklyn? The Dutchman is easy!
Fritz will end your vacation! Songs. Alabama
boys halt us. ......... destroyed and in ruins
from shell fire. Southern men, a little heated
with wine, back to rest, entertain us. "Fritz is
afraid. Show them up as we did." More of our
boys. The ..th is strong in numbers and spirit.
Great hulking fellows. Getting tired. Pack a
burden. Marching difficult for two columns of
troops on a narrow road mostly through
woods. We lose a lot of time halting to let them pass. Rest in one place where there is a
ditch by roadside, which I do not notice. I sit
down and fall backwards almost going down
entirely, losing my helmet. I am calmer than
those who observe me. Very painful walking
after resting. Heels and toes blistered. Were it
not for the beauty of the evening and the sight
of some of our boys, I do not know what
misery I would have suffered. Our home
looms up. Wind lets us know when we are
near. Brings with it odor of horses and musty
breath of old things in town. Partly destroyed
by shelling. To right a large church,
unharmed. To left, across road, ruins. Billeting
and hoisting halt parade for a quarter of an
hour while we sit on cold stones of pavement.
Some men up and out to greet us. Wind our
way through streets to end of town, into a
gateway in grounds of ......... . A classic pile.
Find our bunks of straw, mat and board in the
dark. Sky light shows in the East. It is 2:30.
Coffee brought to us. I find a sweater. Off
with wet coat, roll into blanket and tent half.
Fall asleep until awakened by pain in shoulder
and hips from hardness of bed, and so on.
Resigned to what is to come. Hope for the
best. I face knowledge that on the 27th, I shall
either be in the trenches or no more without a
shudder.