Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 29 April 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Monday April 29, 1918
Weather: Raining, Cloudy
Health: Good, left leg hurts
Up at 6:00. Straggle outside for reveille.
Everybody too tired to get up. Go up for
breakfast. Bacon, bread, coffee. Have an egg
and a glass of milk from Madam, which all
together makes a passable breakfast. Take a
nap for a half hour. Drill call sounds. It is
cloudy but does not look like rain. Not having
orders to the contrary, we go up without
overcoats, rest of company wearing overcoats.
I am cold. Move off for drill field. Warm
enough when marching but when we rest I
almost freeze. Captain leading company. Two
new lieutenants with us. One a crank on
manual. It begins to drizzle. Close order drill
for two hours. Drill field becomes a sea of
mud from tramping of many feet. Ten minute
rests every hour. Then it is necessary to swing
arms and run around in circles to keep warm.
A long line of Red Cross Ambulances pass
along road. Probably wounded men from
yesterday's fray. At eleven o'clock three
Englishmen come up with Lewis machine
guns. One squad from each platoon detailed to
be instructed in working of Lewis gun. My
squad from 3rd platoon. Ten of our men
assigned to each instructor. Our man a
Cheshireman. It is very difficult for us to
understand what he has to say. He takes gun
apart and explains working of different parts
and names of each. After half an hour we are
dismissed to make way for another company.
Rejoin platoon which is working with
bayonets under Sgt. Kaplan. It begins to rain.
Miserable without slickers. Hardly expected
that we would continue to drill. Assembly
sounds. Ready to thank Captain but on looking
at watch see that it is 12 o'clock, time to go
back. Clear again. Flounder back in mud, very
tired. Dinner. Boiled beef, potato, soup, no
bread. Rest an hour. Go up for drill with
overcoats on. Wrong again. Go to drill field.
On way down we fall out to change for
slickers. Close order for half an hour. Men
deficient in manual left behind. Rest of
company moves off for patrol work on roads.
Detachment picked for van and rear guards.
Main body in center. Not given any
explanation about work. Just walk up and
down roads. Halt and go forward at command
from connecting files. On drill field to rejoin
company. It rains. Captain continues work. It
seems to me that he defies elements until it
stops. Back under difficulties. Wash and
shave. Mess call sounds earlier than usual.
Late. Must get on end of line. Rice all gone.
Get cheese, hardtack, jam, cocoa, of which I
get another cup later. Write, read, go to bed at
9:00. A little fun in the dark. Wake up at 2:30
to find it raining hard. Sleep well rest of the
night. Artillery not very active today. Heavy
gun firing has abated somewhat. Lieutenant
tells us of British gains yesterday. A source of
worry and speculation is sound of bursting
shells very close to us, apparently no more
than 7 or 8 miles away. They sound like giant
crackers. Echo rolls through hills. Gun
carriages and communications wagons going
up to the front. Captain and 2 Sgts. scheduled 

to go to front today but are not permitted to go
near. Aeroplanes go over in late afternoon,
flying very low, singly. In early evening come
back in squadrons. Sound of motors is heard,
but they cannot be seen until they emerge
from the clouds. They come into sight very
suddenly and then go right into or over
another cloud bank. Appear to he flying
sidewise. Englishmen tell of great masses of
Germans being slaughtered in Flanders
offensive. Post letters to Leah and Mama.
Tobacco and cigarettes issued. Enough for 2
days.