Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 11 March 1918.
Location: In Camp At Home.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 

Mon. Mar. 11, 1918
Weather: fair, mild Health: good
In camp – At home
Up at 6:00. Reveille.. Do not fall out. Breakfast. Get to work on fires. All fair with exception of fire in kitchen range at Colonel’s. It is out. Pipes are frozen. A sheet of ice 1⁄2 inch thick in sink. Colonel’s man is sick. He shakes with ague. Much worried about condition of place. I advise him to go to quarters and I will do what I can to get things in shape. Start a new fire and presently pipes warm up and can thaw out ice. Brush up. The Colonel has a visitor and I hear an important military conversation while I work. I ask Lieut. MacDougall for a pass. Promises I will get one if any are issued. Later Haight asks me if I want one for first train out. Fires do not give me any trouble at all. I have time to read newspaper, do some washing, towels, shave, shine shoes, other small jobs. Before dinner I must spread equipment on bed to check up. Have dinner. Must wait to be checked. Sent downstairs to clean Mess Hall. Tell Lt. Griffiths I am on fires. He dismisses me. Fix up all fires to last three hours. Dress for inspection. Am worried about not having RR ticket. Borrow price of one from Mendelohn. Pass list posted. Sixteen men go home till Wednesday. Reveille. Lieut. Cook speaks to me for first time since I have been on detail in spite of fact that during that period I have come in contact with him more than ever. I do an errand for him. Inspection at 4:00. Corp. Haight issues passes as we run along road to station. Buy ticket and get on train. A good seat, warm. No need to have hurried. Train does not start until 4:40. Goes over new route, through Manorville and Patchogue main line. Pretty country. A long trip. Ginsberg seatmate. It develops he knows Mike Diamond. Tell each other our troubles. Eat Friend’s cake, crackers, oranges, candy. Nap, forty winks. At Penn Station 7:30. Great majority of men promise themselves not to go back to camp till Friday. It is general impression that this will be our last pass. Get home about 8:00. Leah of course runs to greet me. Everybody well. Mama seems to be aware of the fact that we may sail overseas very soon. I do not tell her so. Haven’t courage. A bully supper. So many courses it seems endless. Stay until 11. Alone with Leah for half an hour. Kiss Mama goodbye and offer up a silent prayer that God will be good to me and send me safely back home. 11:00 boat. Meet Mike and Uncle Sam as we leave boat. Glad we have had each other only on trip across. It is a big task to tell Leah the bad news and to school her to be brave. I know she will try very hard. There are business matters to talk over and plans for future. Get home 12:15. A fine night. A brilliant starry sky as we go up hill. A good omen “Thank God.” Home greets my eyes again. The only place. My good mother-in-law has a plate of cakes, my favorites and tea things ready for me. All these little attentions spoil me and make it harder for me to go away. Dispose of bundles. Open a big package of baby things that Leah has bought for the little soul that is expected soon. Tears. Our eyes range the kitchen. Hard to think of what might be. To bed. It is late. Plan to rise early, and do not wish to make Leah cry. Order her to sleep without talking any more about our troubles. Sleep well.
