Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 9 May 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 

Thu. May 9, 1918
Weather: Fair, Mild
Health: Good
Up late. Almost miss breakfast. No time to
wash. Bacon, bread, coffee. Report for duty at
Batt. Hdqrs. at 7:45. On way up meet Captain
leading out company. I thought they had
already left or I would have avoided him. He
stops me to question what my duties for the
day are. I tell him. He wants to know when I must report. I tell him 7:30. Looks at his
watch. After time. Gives me a call. I make an
excuse. Say between 7:30 and 8 will do. That
appeases him. Still very much displeased that I
am not with company. Enter office. Major and
adjutant already there. Work for an hour.
Become very thirsty. Necessary to go back to
billet to get water bottle. Fill it at water cart.
Drink my fill. Keep bottle with me. Stay at my
figures until 11:45. My partner Fox not
working well. His figures do not tally for some
reason. Sets time for completion of job back
considerably. On the other hand, I have found
myself. No longer necessary for me to figure
on paper. In most cases I do sums mentally.
Mess. Beef stew, from fresh meat, with rice,
coffee, bread. Go back to work at once. Major
not around. Sgt. Major has an opportunity to
take afternoon off. Fox does not show up until
2. I had begun to think he had tired of job.
Tells me a story of a big dinner at officer's
mess through the favor of a friend. I grow to
dislike him more and more every minute.
Tallon in charge of office. He runs out into
next courtyard where battalion supplies are
kept. Comes back with a big bunch of prunes,
dates and a few oranges. We have a party with
dates. Save a few for boys in billet after
supper. Not much to do until Sgt. Major
comes back. He starts things humming again.
Called outside by an orderly who is on duty in
yard. Previous to that we had heard a few shot
reports apparently from air. What orderly
shows us explains. Far up in the air are three
airplanes. Shells are bursting near them.
Sound can plainly be heard and puffs of
smoke can be seen against blue of sky. Not
sure whether objects are not observation
balloons. Look up into sky so long that vision
becomes blurred. Aircraft out of sight under a
cloud bank. Firing at them continues. 4
airplanes flying in other direction, also at great
height. We think it a party out to down craft
which is being fired at though it is doubtful,
account they are flying in other direction.
When things are quiet, we go back into office.
Work until 5:00. Go for mess. Bully beef, hard
tack, coffee, marmalade. A straggling line.
Boys have been to the shower baths. Come
back one by one, pleased and feeling
comfortable. At mess sound of explosion in air
is heard, again from direction of front. After a
time I discover puffs of smoke similar to those
seen in early afternoon. No aircraft can be
seen by me. Other men claim they can see
them in clouds. A short engagement. Back in
billet to write until 8:30. Look for Tallon. He
is busily engaged at his typewriter. Officers
have found occasion for dictation. Get
matches in village. Back in the hay, read
English newspapers 2 and 3 days old, until
darkness falls. Make bed and get under
blankets. Gossip for an hour. One of the men
remarks that it takes a longer time for
complete darkness to fall than it does in our
country. I have wondered about that for a long
while. Of course it might be taken into
consideration that clock is set an hour ahead,
yet it is light until almost 9:30. My night's rest
broken and uncomfortable. I am tempted to
get up a number of times. Guns are not very
active. A few spurts of bombarding during the
day. No air activity except for the incidents
noted. They lead to the conclusion that there is
a possibility of air attack during the night.
Special precautions are taken about screening
lights. Candle in our barn put out early. A
regimental order to that effect. Another order
is that no men or officers will be permitted to
go to ........ Sunday. As usual a case where the
few men make the many suffer. Brawling and
misconduct on the part of men in our division
who were in town Sunday. A blow to the men.
Madam is to be congratulated today. A new
calf is born in the night, which accounts for
the unrest among the animals in the barnyard
all through the night. Lt. Berry pays us a visit
at Batt. Hdqrs. A memo received about lack of initiative among non-coms and junior officers.
Unofficial British comment. Question
Company Clerk about making out blank for
additional allotment to Leah for Cecilie, bless
her. Too late. His Majesty does not work after
retreat, in France.