Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 22 June 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:


Sat. Jun. 22, 1918
Weather: Showers, Warm
Health: Good
Up at 6:00. There will be formation for
Reveille this morning in the rain, wearing tin hats, no umbrellas. Breakfast, beans, Karo,
bread, coffee. Formation for the day
announced. Newsman comes. He gets an
ovation. Rumour is infectious. He blows his
horn frequently to draw remarks from the
men. Wash, clean gun to be ready for possible
inspection. Raining considerably, which
minimized possibility of formation this
morning, so I begin writing. Called out for the
purpose of debating questions which have
come up regarding the company Mess. Non-
coms, particularly platoon sergeants have
complained to Company Commander, that
food is both poor in quality and insufficient
for sustenance. Lt. Cook, therefore, calls
company together to explain that we have an
English cooker, intended originally and
constructed for a company of only 100 men. If
anyone can suggest how to make it do more
work, than the cooks at present on the job get
out of it, he will listen gladly. It must also be
taken into consideration that cooker needs
repairing. Anyone is welcome to volunteer
either services or suggestions of value to
remedy defects in it. Does anyone know how
meat can be cooked in a different manner from
what cooks have been serving? It takes one
hour to settle argument. Haas, Bezer and
others have suggestions. I laugh at them.
Personal tastes are not company tastes.
Sugarman volunteers as cook. He has had
experience in New York hotels. A butcher was
picked for work in the kitchen. Lt. gives some
men permission to go to ..........., where a
number of stoves and dixies have been seen
lying around, to bring back same. If anyone
knows where kitchen utensils can be
purchased, they will receive permission to go.
Great expectations for noon mess. Dismissed.
No formation until afternoon. A new Sgt.,
Burres, suggests we practice putting on
respirators. Those who are in barracks line up
and while away half an hour in gas mask drill.
Go over letter I wrote to Leah, making some
corrections. A visit to the YMCA to get some
paper and inquire about cablegrams and how
to send. Rubin wants to know. Mess really a
surprise to the boys. It was worthwhile
complaining, is the general verdict. Soup,
boiled beef, bread and butter, potato, all done
to perfection. Non-coms are in line same as
privates as per order of Lt. Strange to see Sgt.
Kaplan at end of line. Formation announced
for 1:15. Slickers, gas masks, helmets, rifles. It
is clear and much too warm for slickers and tin
hats. Go to rifle range. A detail picked to act
as scorers and pasters. Men who had much
experience in shooting picked for job. I and
remaining scouts will not shoot. One half of
company in another field for hand grenade
work. Range in a square, a hollow, trees on 4
sides. We shoot at poor targets, corrugated
paper. Soon plugged full of holes. Paste and
paper soon gives out. Two sections of
company alternate their work. Men who have
shot, going to bombing field, and bombers
come to shoot. Machine guns squad have no
opportunity to use rifles. They devote entire
afternoon to Souchard under French officers.
Our Captain Mills attempts to shoot
Souchard's gun from shoulder. Kick almost
knocks him over in spite of his weight. Tries it
from hip with better results. As a grand finale
Lt. has corporals fire ten shots each at a tin
can, intending to count the number of
perforations in the can at the end of a minute.
Go up to get it. It is a wreck. More holes in it
than anyone cares to count. Company goes
back. Led off in squads to prevent enemy from
taking pictures of any larger bodies of troops.
Dismissed. Mess as soon as we get back.
Stew, potato, coffee, bread. Meal voted a
success. Much praise for our new cooks. New
system for serving again gives good results.
Begin writing a letter to Nuck and the boys. I
am risking a great deal in writing it. It may
give offense to officials, there being a
possibility that what I write in a humourous vein be taken seriously by censoring officer. It
is too good to destroy, in my opinion. I read as
much of it as I have finished to Rubin and the
other men in the next bunk. I must borrow a
candle to continue writing after dark. I
consume two or three candle ends before I
finish. It is eleven o'clock when I finally
extinguish light to please men who wish to
sleep. I finish letter but do not revise it.
Tonight there has been another mass meeting
before our doors, of men who tell each other
how the war can be won. If only they are
fortunate enough to be permitted to go to the
line, they will illustrate their methods of going
over to visit Fritz, etc. Everyman has an
infallible system. Just before sundown the
usual engagements in the air are fought over
the lines. The town alarm is sounded at which
all men must get under cover. Being
unconcerned as to danger, our men congregate
in doorway and under eaves of barracks to
watch shells bursting in air. Announcement
made for tomorrow's calls. Reveille will be at
6:30. During the night a number of isolated
shots are fired. F and H companies must be
having a quiet time of it in the trenches in
spite of a dozen rumors to the contrary that
they have been shot up. Some of their men
who have been guarding rations and supplies
at ........., come up to join battalion and are
quartered with us for rationing. Everyone
quickly detects them as strangers and protests
against feeding them. A selfish lot. To bed at
11:15. Sleep well. Told that Jacobson, G.
Company, has been transferred to field
artillery. One of our new Sgts. and Powers
have a discussion about proper way to wear tin
helmet.