Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 10 July 1918.

Nationality: Australian

Text:

Wed. Jul. 10, 1918
Weather: Cloudy, Warm
Health: Poor
Up at 8:00. Cook for new detachment,
obligingly gives me breakfast. I have no
appetite. Refuse Bacon. Take only bread,
which I toast, and coffee. Men who were out
in the night are back. Gillece squeezes into my
bed for a nap just before I get up. At 5, Lt.
Griffiths calls Ellbogen to ask him for his
report. Scolds him for not having turned it in
sooner. I am glad to see him back, but he
makes no mention of what I am to do. I ask
him while he has his breakfast in kitchen. He
has not yet spoken to K Co. Captain. He will
do so shortly. I embarrass him every time I
mention anything about the trouble in which
we are both involved. I realize now that it is
he, more than anyone else, I am doing penance
for. That being the case, I must not again
threaten to demand a court martial, which it is
obvious would result in more punishment for
him than he has already undergone. And since
it is for him I am making the sacrifice of my
vacation, I have much less to complain about.
I regard him very highly and am certain that I
will have an easy time of it through his
intercession. Upstairs in the parlor we chat,
2nd Batt. boys telling the new men of their
experiences, and giving whatever advice they
can for their benefit. At 10:00, my comrades
are ready to leave - without me. No word from
Lt. and I am again despondent. Try to forget
my troubles by reading Torchy, humorous,
refreshing tales. Finish the book. All but a few
of the new men go out on duty. They all have
previously designated tasks to perform. They
seem to be better organized than we were. No
one has called for me to go to work, at which I
am pleased and a little surprised. From one of
the men, I hear that my Lt. has not yet gone.
He was seen in the trenches escorting a party
of officers from the relief. This morning my
situation reminds me of the Englishman,
whom we fed at ......... I am not attached to any
organization. My meals will be given by men
who are not expected to feed me. It strikes me
as interesting to tell Leah of the Englishman
and how my case parallels his. I begin writing
her a long letter, telling the story of the
supposed spy first, and then recounting my
present experiences. Have dinner at 12. Only
toast and a small piece of roast beef and a cup
of coffee. Enough for my appetite. Afterward,
when I have resumed writing, I am surprised
by a call from Lt. He has finally had an
audience with the Capt. and it is arranged that
I remain behind and report daily to him, but
213work to be done by me, if any, will not he in
conjunction with prisoners. I am assured I will
not be considered as such. Capt. will use me
for minor jobs to he done around hdqrs.
Advised to take it as easy as possible. I only
remain here for mess and my bunk, with the
consent of the Lt. I would like to repay them
by doing gas guard duty for them, but Lt.
advises that that is not necessary. I thank him
and assure him that present plans meet with
my hearty approval. He promises to have mail
for me, if any, forwarded without delay as
soon as he gets back to his detachment. I thank
him. He appears grateful that I will let matter
rest as it is. Leaves as soon as I see Sgt.
Stewart in charge, in absence of his Lt. I tell
him that my status has been decided upon and
explain details to him. Offer to do guard duty.
Declines with thanks. Only returning favors
we showed him, he declares, while he was
visiting. Write until I become tired. Settle
myself for a nap. Flies bother me. Must cover
my head with coat and am awakened by the
boys to go down for supper. Bread and coffee
again. It is a fine diet. Frenchmen below us
vacate. They are relieved to go back for a rest.
I write till dark. One of the boys has received a
bundle of papers from home. Brooklyn
Standard Union and the American. Some
copies of the Post. Sit at the table after the
candles are lit and read them. Interesting.
Almost as good as a trip home to read them.
Pick up a copy of the Post. Strike a story
which was the last I remember reading before
I left for Camp Upton, dated December 1st.
Read a story by George Weston. Look over
war pictures in a Sun Pictorial Section. Chat
with boys about the mistakes their
predecessors and ours have made, They are
interested. Some of their men are out on
patrol. It is raining quite hard and the night is
blacker than pitch. They have no raincoats
with them. Sympathize with them. For their
first night's work they must cope with rain,
while we had ideal weather the entire length of
our stay. We were fortunate. The ice of
formality has been broken. I am no longer
considered a stranger, and I am feeling
considerably improved in health. I am quite
content with the world. Nevertheless before I
go to bed a reaction has set in and I have
vague feeling of uneasiness, as if something
detrimental to my interests was impending. It
may be a bilious trick played upon me by my
still disordered stomach. To bed at 10 o'clock.
The Hun has sent over a few of his shells
today from reports the men bring in. A few of
them have been seen in the trenches from the
OP opposite 12, where Thurn always saw
something of interest he is supposed to have
wanted to have seen. This minniewafer(?). His
aeroplanes have been scouting overhead all
day. It causes me considerable worry when
they are up, because there is at all times a
large gathering around the kitchen, none of
them seeking cover when they should. They, I
was afraid, would be spotted by Fritz and
dispersed in a manner not to their liking. From
behind our lines one or two guns have been
busy without a stop today, sending shells in
the direction of ......... and ......... The new men
are anxious on that account. It seems to them
they come in our direction from the enemy.
During the night, the guard below is busy
challenging men. The patrol comes back with
lots of food for discussion. They have had the
same trouble finding Germans that we always
had. Like us, too, they are intent on
exterminating themselves. One of them is lost
in the dark and when he returns, one of his
own men hurls a bomb at him, because in his
excitement, he cannot give the password when
challenged. And only a few hours before they
had smiled tolerantly when I told them of
similar incidents in our battalion. Everybody is
awakened by the recital of their troubles and
discomforts. Propaganda shot over to the
German lines by French and Americans. 