Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 29 March 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Fri. Mar. 29, 1918
Weather: fine, clear Health: Slight headache over eyes
In Quarantine
Up at 6:00. No Reveille. Take down shelter halves. Breakfast. Oatmeal, scrambled eggs, potatoes, coffee. Some boys thinking that they may sleep late are tardy entering Mess Hall. Are not missed. They make a complaint and are given coffee, French toast, and oatmeal. Ward men mess apart from us, sleep in half barracks, and must not mingle with us. Guttenberger tells me that he has not been able to send telegram that I gave to Cook. In platoon room, all windows are opened, cots and all equipment from needles to guns taken out for airing. Guard paces up and down company street. No one permitted to approach. We lie on our cots and sun ourselves. We expected we would do this all day. Muster. We make packs, long rolls, put on dress shoes, shave. Captain announces muster. To drill fields. Pitch tents. Big load carried by me very easily today. Not at all fatigued. Manoeuver a long time before we get order to pitch tents. Hackett my rear rank man. We erect a fine tent after a poor start. Lay out equipment for inspection. Layout changed a dozen times. Lie on ground and study semaphore and wig-wag signalling. Another big fire in Camp, which gives off great clouds of smoke. Men who have been close to Sgt. Moore during last few days are taken to base hospital for observation. Will be kept for a few days. Dinnertime approaches but we are nowhere near completed. 1:30 before Major has inspected, and order to strike tents is given. Dinner at 2. Mark Block comes. I am called out of Mess Hall. He has package for me from Mother. Tells me he has been transferred to Depot Brigade because alien. I ask him to call up Leah. He will. Finish dinner. Fish, potatoes, soup, coffee. Get three letters from Leah. Good news. Company formed to be examined for symptoms of meningitis. Doctor asks that all headaches be reported. I tell him that I have one. Stand aside. Rest of Company OK. Doctor takes my temperature. Have no other symptoms. Headache probably from sun. Am sunburned. Doctor sends over pills. We wash down walls and post in quarters with carbolic acid solution, and all parts of building thoroughly scrubbed. Wash cots, dust blankets, and clothing, and take packs upstairs. Clean guns, shine shoes, wash windows. Write. Supper. Macaroni, prunes, coffee. Sign payroll. Write letter to Leah and Mama. Do not tell Mama what has happened. Put up shelter halves again. Make bed. Fire so hot that my tent halves smell of burning rubber. Move bed. To bed at 11. Rub my head and exercise. A bit worried about my condition but decide not to give in. Boys send letters from hospital, asking for small articles such as razor, socks, towels to be sent to them. Most all of our sergeants and some of our corporals are there for 8 days.
