Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 14 April 1918.
Location: At Sea.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Sunday. April 14, 1918
Weather: fair, warm, sea calm
Health: cold no better
At Sea
Boys of our Company detailed to study
launching of lifeboats and assisting in
everything.
Up at 6:00. On deck for Reveille. Downstairs to wash. Boys see a porpoise. Upstairs for
muster and a look around. Fleet riding
together with cruiser well in lead. A promise
of a beautiful day, which I cannot enjoy to full
extent because I am in great distress because
nose and head full of cold. I use handkerchief
constantly. Breakfast. Oatmeal, liver and
bacon, bread, butter, and coffee. Make bunk,
police and go upstairs to read until boat drill,
at which we assemble quickly. Dismissed.
Crew men are kept on deck. Get rifles and are
drilled in manual by non-coms. Everybody
works unwillingly. Signal men taken in hand
by Lt. Cook. I am not in class. Watch drilling
for a while and find a spot on boat deck to sun
myself and read. I try to write a letter to Leah
telling her of last night’s events, but I cannot
concentrate. Attention distracted by drilling.
Frequent coughing spells. Crew has a fire drill.
All mess boys come on deck and to their
stations carrying a blanket. Many gongs ring
and whistles blow in different parts of the
ship. A little excitement before reason is
learned. Think it is some kind of submarine
danger alarm. Boys on deck are sprayed by
hose. Read till time for mess. Soup, bad meat,
potatoes, plum duff. One of crew has scarlet
fever. Notice posted to that effect and soldiers
are warned not to mingle with men of the
forecastle. On deck until 2:30 when we are
sent below to await call for drill. Get upstairs
in good time. Everybody present. Dismissed.
New men and signalmen are put to work as in
forenoon. I clamber into a collapsible boat
looking for a place to write. Find a
comfortable spot but cannot write. Disturbed
by others. A guard is in boat to prevent men
from loafing in boats 1A and 1, which are
already slung on davits. Fear tackle may be
tampered with. I try to lie down and take a
nap. No place big enough to fit me. Gasp for
air when I lie down. Spend a very restless
hour. Am finally forced to get out and go
below for a walk. Every ship in fleet in
manoeuvering and zig-zagging according to
plan (I presume). Lt. Cook has been to our
quarters and found a number of dirty guns.
Orders everyone to give attention to rifles. I
spend an hour taking off rust which is
plentiful. Take a half hour’s nap before
supper. I am very hungry and very much
disappointed. Head cheese, bread, jam, and
stewed apples, tea. Eat a lot of rice and apples
but it does not take the edge off my hunger.
Take a laxative pill thinking it will help my
cold a little. Walk around the deck until
darkness falls. All lights are out. Spend a few
minutes wondering at a salami one of the boys
has brought in his pocket from New York and
which is now being greedily devoured. Go
below and get to bed as quickly as possible. I
am not sleepy so I reread parts of a magazine I
have been going through all day. Lieutenant of
H. Company comes into hatch and asks all
Catholics to assemble in prayer. Has an
enlisted man, evidently a bible student, as his
reader. Card games are stopped for the time
being and about fifty boys gather around while
the Rosary is told. They kneel of life belts and
repeat prayer after reader. It sounds similar to
the chanting which I heard, while in
quarantine at Camp Upton, coming from the
Mess Hall. I find myself repeating parts of the
prayer because I listen intently to the reader.
Service soon over. Fall asleep. Wake up 2 or 3
times during night to find myself dreaming.