Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 19 January 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Sat. Jan. 19, 1918
Weather: clear, mild Health: good
Up at 5:30 before whistle blows. Reveille at 6:15. Make bed and wash before breakfast. Bread, butter, oatmeal, coffee. Police up very well. Inspection of quarters by Capt. Pronounced excellent. No black marks. Inspection of Company outside. Most of 3rd platoon reprimanded for condition of rifles. I among them. Commander tells us he is proud of his company. Dismissed after announcing an entertainment and refreshments for those who do not go on leave. A rush for Orderly Room begins, to get passes. I get mine late and equipped only with a book, I start for Patchogue with Kiernan. Not an automobile to be had in Camp so we decide to walk to Camp Upton Station. Get a lift. No vehicles on hand. Meet Svedja. He and I start hiking. After 3 miles my left foot troubles me. Every step I take is painful. Get to Center Moriches at 1:45. Have sandwiches, coffee, crackers, candy. Telephone Leah. Decide to wait for 4:05 train to New York. Spend a few minutes in office of County newspaper. Everything 100 years old. We buy a fifteen party ticket and wait in drugstore until train time. My foot is a bit rested. Make arrangements to be taken from Patchogue station on way back to Camp. While away time at horseplay. Start for train as it blows up cold. Train on time. Passes through pretty country. On train meet Sgt. Berg and hear that Graumy is on pass. Train crowded and losing time. Very cold. Delayed again at Jamaica. Get into Penn Station at 8:00. Telephone Leah. Home at 8:30. My wife in my arms, Mama and Papa and everybody. My journey worthwhile for its reward. Get a shock on learning that Morris is married. Mama bitter, grieves about it. Morris calls up and I give him my most sincere congratulation. I am jealous of Sam who got in at 5:30. Take a 15 minute nap. Start for 10:30 boat. Meet Mike on boat. Arrive home 11:30. Go to bed at once. Am very tired and eyes hurt. Feet very poor condition. Again say my prayers with my wife after three weeks. Restless all night. I have had a most interesting day. Cost me more than a week’s wages to get in under great hardship, but would have undergone twice as much to get home to my wife and Mama. No plans for tomorrow except to go over business affairs with Leah.
