Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 6 July 1918.
Nationality: Australian

Text:


Sat. Jul. 6, 1918
Weather: Fine, Warm
Health: Poor
F Co. to make a raid to-night with the
aid of French. E Co. platoon comes up
in support. 4 letters from Leah - one
from Annette
Up at 7:00. Wash. Breakfast. I wonder what
will happen to me. Nothing further has been
said about my undergoing punishment. I know
that Lt. is trying his best to get me out of the
scrape I am in, and silence on his part, leads
me to believe he has found a way to comply
with the spirit of the order without punishing
or degrading me. I cannot find interest or
enjoyment in anything. I am not feeling well.
My digestion is poor. I have cramps and
symptoms of dysentery, which together with
the disgrace which stares me in the face make
me wish to close my eyes and forget my
troubles in sleep if I can. Lie down and fall
asleep. Awake at 12. Go to dinner. Meat balls,
potatoes, tomato sauce, bread, coffee. A
feeling of fullness and heaviness in spite of the
fact that I eat very little. Lt. has not yet come
back. My fate is still in doubt. Best to take a
walk to avoid hearing any disagreeable news. I
will go to the pottery. Meet Sgt. Byrne there,
who tells me he has had experience in the
potter's craft. Explains different stages of
manufacture of plates to me. Stroll around in
the various buildings looking for finished
pieces suitable for sending home as souvenirs.
A wonderful place at one time, now in ruins.
Thousand of pieces of crockery, most of them
broken or cracked. Some baskets of good ones
from among which I pick a few pieces which
suit my fancy. See infants' bath tubs, which
remind me forcibly and painfully of my loved
ones at home. I think of the baby I have at
home and have never seen and realize what a
fool I was not to have gone home to see her
before I left. Not a new thought with me
lately, but a futile one, I realize. Find a willow
wired cane an my way out. I think it may
belong to one of the men billeted in quarters
here, pass it by, then turn back to get it. Boys
in quarters when I get back admire both my
cane and the pottery I bring back. A number of
them seized with the impulse to go there and
do as I did, leaving me almost alone and
giving me the opportunity to write a letter to
Leah without being disturbed. There is not
much paper. Borrow as much as I can. Tell
Leah about the bath tubs. Write to Bella,
Willie, and begin a letter to Lottie. Supper.
Meat balls, spaghetti, bread, coffee. Stomach
feels a little better. Lie down for a moment's
nap. I have been asked to go with Gillece to
Hdqrs. to stay for the night and bring back
report of activities, if any. This pleases me
more than any detail I have so far been given
for it signifies I am reinstated into the good
206graces of the Major and am still a Battalion
Scout in good standing. To myself I thank Lt.
Griffiths for intersession in my behalf. Happy
and pleased as punch. An example of how
good news cures ills. Lie contentedly,
smoking in bed, when discussion arises on
what day of the week it is. I have imagined all
day that it was Friday and was enjoying the
last smoke before Sabbath was ushered in.
Convinced that to-day is Saturday, I feel
awfully sorry that for the first time since I
made my promise to Leah not to smoke on the
Sabbath, I have broken it. Unconsciously, to
be sure, but nevertheless I feel badly about it.
Material for another letter to Leah to-morrow,
in which I will ask for forgiveness. Observe
what is left of the Sabbath, about an hour and
a half. Prepare to go to H Hdqrs. Take cane as
supplementary weapon. Get a sandwich in the
kitchen to have at hand in case I grow hungry
in the night, as was the case while on last job
of this nature. Get the password. Start while it
is light. Beyond the town the smell of mustard
rising from the damp ground. Quite sure it is
that. Gillece disagrees. Another argument with
him about the road we should take. This time
he proves to be in the right. Made as welcome
as the accommodations permit by the men on
guard and patrol duty. Hdqrs. is outside under
a shed. Dugouts and boyaus on left of road.
Talk to whoever is arriving for purpose of
getting whatever information I can from them.
Caution them about talking to ....... officers,
who are spying in this sector. They tell me of
the exploits of Capt. Mills and a French Lieut.,
who went over the top from 18 post, where we
have spent so much time in observation, going
down into the gully, to the spot we had
reported to be a new line of trench. They make
no attempt to conceal movement and
encounter no one. Supposed line of trench is a
road and shell holes in No Man's Land. That is
a bit of gossip that pleases me, for it discredits
Thurn, who, every time he goes to that post to
observe, sees from 1 to 12 Huns, houses, MG
emplacements, etc. I was almost certain he
uses his imagination instead of his eyes. Now I
am sure. Ask for officers, so that I may report
presence to them. Ushered into the presence of
Capt., and Lt. Otto, whom I snubbed
yesterday. They are in good humour and joke
with us, while they instruct us of intended
movement in event they must retreat under
heavy shelling or gas attack. Follow non-com
into adjoining dugout, where we can get a bit
of sleep if we wish. Bunks are without straw
on the customary wide mesh springs. Only a
board bottom. Place smells of dump and
vermin. Suggestive of rats. No one asleep as
yet. Most of the men are sleeping out in the
open, but it becomes too cold and damp for
them. They come in one by one for warmth
and cover. Artillery behind our lines is very
busy. Shells are whizzing above us frequently
and sound is quite audible from where we are.
I should have gone out to investigate, but I am
assured it is nothing of importance. Bursts of
firing lasting about 10 minutes at a time.
.......... M.G Fire - But no activity in sector I
am covering. Lennon comes in. We talk.
Remove belt and helmet. Lie down on bench
which has served as my chair. The hardest
thing I have ever slept on. Sorry now that I
have not chosen one of the bunks while they
were still to be had. Men are awakened who
are to go on visiting patrol. I get into place
vacated by them. Heavy shelling at 12 o'clock
to our right. Fritz is active too. ......... and ........
are being shelled with .. and gas. I wonder
what our detachment is doing. From sound,
they are in zone of fire. Probably in the
dugout. Sleep a little in my perch. Must get
out when men come back. Place I have
vacated has been taken by a member of
company, so I am without a bunk. Sit on
opposite bench, too narrow to sleep on, and
bethink myself of finishing letter to Lottie.
Light and position too poor for that and
207instead want to clean and oil my revolver. It is
loaded. I extract cartridge, and interested in
method of ejection, I load and unload. When I
have seen enough of workings, I release
magazine and pull trigger. Bang! The bullet
buries itself in the flooring without injury to
anyone. E Company brilliancy. Sure death to
someone had muzzle not been pointed to floor.
Look unconcerned. Scolded by men but no
one gets excited.