Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 28 June 1918.

Nationality: Australian

Text:


Fri. Jun. 28, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Diarrhea, Cramps
I wake up men and go to sleep. Asked if I
want breakfast. I have no desire to eat.
Stomach overloaded. Cramps. Bowels are
loose. A cup of coffee will do me. I go to sleep
again. Do not awaken till 10. Nobody about.
Beside my blanket is a cup of coffee and two
slices of bread and butter. Coffee is cold, so I
build a small fire of twigs and paper to heat it.
Succeed only in getting it lukewarm. Relish a
meal. Seized with cramps again. Back and try
to write. I begin a letter to Leah, writing 2 1/2
pages. My eyes are tired and I fall asleep
again. Remember mess time. Wake up to find
all the men back and asleep. No one has
moved to camp in back woods this morning.
Tell men it is mess time and ask them to
kindly bring me some coffee and bread. Rubin
volunteers to do so. I thank him. One reason I
do not go up to where mess is served is that
our squad members are taking their turn at
returning dixies to kitchen, a trip of almost a
mile, in which a steep hill is encountered. I do
not feel equal to the task, and I am afraid I will
be asked to go. Write again until Rubin brings
me a cup of coffee and Lukas has 11 letters
from home for me, 1 from Willie, 1 from
Morris, who is in the country, taking
advantage of a honeymoon, 2 from Lottie and
seven from Leah, the first dating from May
30th, Decoration Day. Her thoughts on that
day were of a year ago, similar to those I
wrote about in my Decoration Day letter to
her. I am very happy and relieved to receive
letters from home and as usual do not open
and read them until everything else is done. I
heat my coffee, after spending half an hour or
so trying to get a fire started, without success.
Eat bread and butter, while I read Leah's letter.
She has received mail from me in France, but I
do not know which. Reference may have been
made to three in the 15 or more other letters
which have not arrived. Leah is quite
evidently worried, because she has had so few
letters from me. She is trying her very best to
keep from crying. A package of goodies is on
the way to me, being brought in a trunk by a
friend of Miss Hogues, who is in France to do
canteen work. All news, otherwise, is cheerful.
Baby and Leah are well, thank God. I write a
bit more until word is sent down from Hdqrs. that we must go up to sign payroll, something
I thought wouldn't be done this month. I am
not at all anxious to go up, having no need for
money, and would rather continue writing to
Leah. Rubin is going up and urges me to
accompany him; besides it is an order and
since it is known that I am in camp, I will have
to obey. I go out for first time to-day. It is very
hot in the sun. A three quarter of a mile walk.
Payroll is signed under a camouflaged hill,
where not long ago was a big gun. Back by
way of ......... . Pick and eat a few cherries,
which are so tempting that I cannot resist,
though I should. Into town from other end,
where our company has never been. Go to
YMCA to buy some crackers, which I eat on
the way back to camp. Portion of town I have
just passed through recently shelled. Take a
short cut into the fields, bearing down upon
our camp in the right direction at the
beginning, but in crossing over barbed wire
entanglements, I lose my way. Go much
behind the pines in which we live. Meet Del
Duca and Rubin coming back. I have heard
some one practicing shooting with a rifle.
Sound seems to be coming toward me, but I
continue walking. When we are back in our
grove, Del Duca begins cleaning his rifle, then
taking out his pistol, finds it has been hit just
outside ejector slot by a bullet, which went
through his holster. He finds splinters of bullet
in bottom of case. A marvelously narrow
escape for him. It seems in the ranks of C
Company, there is one every day. I lie on my
stomach on a blanket, writing, feeling very
uncomfortable, until I fall asleep. I am asked
do I want anything for supper. Not a thing. I
thank Rubin for being so kind. I awake at 8
o'clock, cranky and annoyed to find nothing
for me to eat. I have an appetite and would
especially like something to drink. Not a drop
of water in any of the canteens. Ask
permission to go to YMCA, and incidentally
to fill water bottles. Permitted to go provided I
bring back water. I take three bottles and go
down the road in the dark. Our artillery near at
hand is beginning a little shelling of Fritz.
YMCA still open to my surprise. It is electric
lighted. So are main buildings and very little
precaution is taken to screen lights. I get
crackers for my supper and fill water bottles,
going back quietly along the road in the dark
until I come upon the squad standing to, in the
trench post assigned to us. Del Duca is doing
the talking as usual. I leave a bottle of water
for them, then go down for my gun and belt. I
do not feel very much like standing guard, yet
it is best not to complain. I come up and listen
half asleep, to Del Duca. At 10:15, I go down
to sleep. Guns near us are spitting fire, but at
the front things are quiet. Corporal has been
told, a barrage is expected and an attempt will
be made to break through, to be especially
watchful for gas. I am on guard with Rubin,
from 1:10 to 3:30. I fall asleep and slumber
soundly until McGuire awakens us to go on
post. Up quickly; in five minutes I am on duty.
Nothing has happened and it is very quiet
now. Occasionally machine gun fire. I am
again seized with cramps. I am very
uncommunicative. Rubin makes efforts to
draw me out, but does not succeed. His stories
of business successes and reverses do not
interest me. Time is dragging. Toward 3:15, as
dawn is breaking to replace a dark, cloudy
night, a German aeroplane is heard. It is
coming in our direction. My steel helmet is on
and gas mask alert. I wonder why nothing is
being done to scare him away or no effort
being made to shell him. Presently, hum of
motor from our own plane heard giving chase.
Reason enough why no shells are sent
skyward. A running game of hide and seek is
played until they are out of earshot. I go down
to wake up Lukas and Gillece, our relief. I go
to bed and sleep very well. It is warm.
Annoyed with myself for not having written to
Leah. I had ample opportunity to do so. Find a
191beautiful bird nest and with it prove
correctness of my contentious discussion with
Rubin about family responsibility.