Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 26 May 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:


Sun. May 26, 1918
Weather: Cloudy, Mild
Health: Good
Up at 6:00. Wash. Breakfast. Bacon, bread,
coffee. Police around tent. Pick up white
clothes and hide in bush. Cut fresh branches
from bushes to camouflage tent. Put my house
in order. Everything within folded in good
order. Ready for Major and Colonel. Lts. have
come back. They were up and out before 5. I
stir a wash in can over hot fire till water boils.
Sgt. Fisher picks me of all men to go out
towards road to watch for Colonel's party. I
demur, but finally I have to go. Take my post
taking advantage of opportunity to read
remainder of letters I received yesterday.
Every one, thank God, contains good news.
Leah and baby well. In a few minutes Lts.
relieve me. I go on with my washing. Hot
water too hot. Chat with boys on bench until it
cools sufficiently. Cloudy till now. Sun steals
out for a little while. Finish work. Take
clothes to farm house to rinse in cold water.
Bring back a can of water for Himpler. Hang
clothes to dry. Carefully conceal white clothes
in bushes. Work for day is done. I begin a
letter to Leah. Write on bench for a time, then
get into tent. Mess is ready at 12 sharp. Beef
stew, hard tack, coffee. Lieut. comes back.
Gives men who remained in camp yesterday
permission to go to their company
headquarters. I did not intend to go because I
do not fancy long hike. Men start for town
before I have my letter completed so when
ready, I must go to town myself to mail letters.
Start at two. Get whatever letters men have
ready to mail. Follow same road used by us in
coming in last Wednesday. Walk until I reach
spot opposite cemetery where we stopped on
Wednesday. I am on wrong road but I am not
aware of it. while I rest seated on spreading
trunk of tree, I write two pages of a letter to Mama. Let a good opportunity to ride pass by.
Walk on. Meet a Frenchman. Pass the time of
day. He offers me a cigarette. Unusual
generosity for a poor Frenchman. As a rule
they ask for largesse. Cut short his voluble
lamentations about devastation of la belle
France. Go on until I see a signpost which
assures me I am on the wrong road. I had
suspected as much. Objects I pass are
unfamiliar. Lose a half hour in retracing my
footsteps. At right crossroads, a Canadian in a
car halts to inquire direction to town he wishes
to make. It is in my direction. He offers me a
ride. We converse. He is from Missouri. Swap
stories of experiences. Outside of my old
billets door in a few minutes. Stop for ten
minutes to finish conversation. Everybody at
home. I am quite welcome. Finish Mama‘s
letter after we have told each other news. Mess
is ready. Still working by platoon system. A
tin of bully beef to each two men, cheese,
bread, onions fried, hard tack, coffee. Can get
more if I wish. Borrowed mess kit. Go to
orderly room. Meet other men in from school.
Agree to meet on way back. Lt. Cook in
orderly room. He limps. I ask him why.
Sprained his ankle at front. Communicative.
Buy chocolate. Meet Captain and Lt. First
platoon in quarantine. Ginsberg is very ill. He
is taken to hospital. Get tobacco ration.
Deliver mail to Company F and H. Wait at
crossroads for men going back. It develops
they have made same mistake as I on trip in. I
do not admit my guilt. I kid them. Start back at
7 on right road with three others. Rest at
cemetery. From there we get a lift in a lorry to
road leading to home. There are two roads.
Gilard on post tells us the road to left is a short
cut. We take it and as usual when following
the advice of others we lose our way. See
ammunition trains going up line. Anti-air gun
in field with operator watching. Shell holes
which seem to be lately made. Am a trifle
nervous. Missiles are heard to whiz in the
distance. Find YMCA hut. Get paper and
envelopes. Locate a shower bath. Ask our
way. Am properly directed. Home shortly
much relieved. Very tired from hike. Make
bed. Poker game among boys does not
interest. No news. Undress and go to bed. Fall
asleep quickly and sleep fairly well in spite of
noise of engagement. Today the guns have net
been idle for a minute and at night a barrage is
put over apparently by us, which is terrible to
listen to. A constant rumbling, not as lead as
isolated shots. It ceased far an hour during
night, according to guard, but is renewed and
kept up until morning. Airmen are up, but I am
not aware of any casualties or engagements.
0ne, I observe, pitches headlong to earth, or I
thought he was winged, but he rights himself.
Very cold and misty during the night but I
sleep well in spite of it. Say my prayers with
special fervor.