Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 21 April 1918.
Location: England - France.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Sunday April 21, 1918
Weather: Clear, Mild
Health: Headache
In England - France
Up at 6:30. Half hour before whistle blows,
cold and stiff. Blinds are removed from
windows. Daylight discloses a cliff in rear, sea
gulls, crows and other birds nesting on slopes.
A castle in the distance. Small neat brick
houses, a few grey concrete. Aeroplane is
circling overhead. Sun coming up, takes chill
out of air. Go downstairs to wash and make a
tour of inspection. See black bread on tables in
Mess Hall which excites my appetite. Tell
glad news to all the men. Many English
soldiers about whom I cannot distinguish from
officers, they are full of brass buttons. Find a
Canteen and YMCA house. Yard is full of
men, balconies lined too. Canteen is opened.
Stormed by men for cake and chocolate,
cigarettes, etc. One fights way to front and
buys for us all. Breakfast. Wheat bread, ham,
jelly, coffee. Quickly served. Food good.
Thankful for first piece of wheat bread since I
am in army. Go into shelter in mountain side
which is to protect against air raids. Talk to
English Tommy about conditions at front.
Describes them as horrible. Scotch, Irish,
British subjects of all climes there to leave
with our draft. Manage to mail letters written
Friday. Girls and begging children outside of
gate. Large numbers of women workers in
uniform are about. See bicycles frequently. On
inquiry find they are still the fashion. Find
English army discipline is very strict. Men like
statues in presence of officers. Company
formed for a hike along roads which are lined
with children begging for pennies. Every other
house is a tavern. Old women numerous.
Houses very old. Can see neat parlours and in
every window a nosegay of fresh flowers.
Follow road along cliffs. See fortifications. A
wonderful view across channel. Hillsides
covered with a wonderful carpet of green.
Permitted to fall out. Spring to right of road
and almost go over a sheer precipice 100 ft.
above beach. Falls away so sharply that it is
not seen till I am almost to edge. Captain
comes up to take in view. Listen to wash of
waves on beach below and follow gulls and
ships that look like rowboats. Lie on grass, sun
warming me, bask and start a letter to Leah.
Ordered to fall in and get back in time for
dinner. Mutton stew, bread, jam. Finish letter
and manage to post it before company is
assembled with pack on backs. March to boat
landing admired and cheered by all. See
ambulance cars which carry wounded. Board
boat again put in deepest hold. Hot and stuffy.
Head throbbing again. Long time before we
get started. Get in a nap. Ordered to put on life
belts and go on deck. Orders reversed. Begin
to perspire profusely. Stomach turns. Just
manage to reach deck. Vomit. Well in few
minutes. Headwind very strong. Chills me.
Get news of recent events from deckhand.
Conscription in Ireland and an air raid last
night over Calais. Surprised me. A very swift
boat. Shores of France in plain view.
Destroyers with us. Boat docks. Ready to disembark. Company lines up on quay.
Captain gives us a little close order drill to
impress English and French officers about. All
most disinterested people. Start on a two mile
hike along a gray dusty road to rest camp.
Boys from USA our advance guard going into
town. We envy them. Blind men everywhere.
Weight of pack and headache great
annoyance. Cannot enjoy sights I see.
Fortifications and air raid shelters. Aeroplanes
scouting overhead. Not a vestige of anything
but military. Arrive in Camp. No greeting.
Tommies are queer reserved people. They
have nothing to do but lounge. Quarters in
three longbase barracks without lights. We are
given a ticket which entitles us to supper.
Bread, cheese, jam and tea. Fill up to capacity.
Wholesome stuff. Some men manage to get
beer and wine which puts them in good
humor. Issued three heavy blankets. Worried
about deportment in event of an attack. Make
up a bunk on floor together with Eifert. Lie
down and try to forget headache but cannot for
a long time. I am a nuisance to bunkmate.
Fancy I hear booming of big guns in distance.
Dream of home. A very full day in which I try
to be interested, realizing how near we are to
front and that we will soon play our part in the
big game. German prisoners are here.