Author: Thomas James Richards.
Date: 29th March 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

March 29th. Thursday. Morning Parade:-- Scheme of Defense (lecture)          "                  "          practice and sketch. Afternoon Parade:-- Discussion of this morning scheme by Major Harris. Football match against 4th Division School. 1st won 9 - 0. 1700 Lecture on Correspondence by Capt. Fay. After dinner lecture. Prismatic Compass. The morning scheme was laid down, as follows. Enemy at St. Savious. N. Brigade to hold front from "B" in Brailly to windmill West of St. Vaast. X. Bn. from right bank of River Somme to Wood 1 mile South of St. Vaast. "Y". Bn. on the right of "X." B. and "W" on left. "A" Coy. X. Bn from the right to 100 yds. N of La Chassee. Road B. Coy. X. Bn 100 yds. of La Chassee Rd. to "C" in Roman Camp. Line to be held at all cost. Lecture "Correspondence" Capt. Fay. Strict attention must be paid to every detail regarding military correspondence. The different forms and kinds of correspondence in Military affairs have to be carefully considered. It is very necessary also to keep correspondence down to a minimum, as is must alway be borne in mind that Division has some 10 Battalions to deal with and it means an immense amount of correspondence. All letters addressed to a higher command should be on 1/4 margin "fool's cap" paper, and at the head of the letter must be stated the roughly what is concerned in the letter 
body. Also at the top should be written who the letter is from and who to, at the bottom only rank and name should appear. Prompt handing and answering of letters depends upon how they at addressed and to ensue their getting into the right department right away instead of being sent first from one to the other of the departments for claim and recognition. Any matter concerning either Brigade or Division should never be addressed to any particular officer. Many mistakes are caused by wrong use of words; for instant, Battn is commonly used for Battalion or correctly Bn. so that any correspondence so directed falls into the hands of the artillery department. The "Afterdinner Lecture" was given over to Capt. Voeveles who had considerable trouble in explaining the "Prismatic Compass". But he did give a whole lot of valuable information concerning same.