Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 25 May 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:


Sat. May 25, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
Up at 6:00. Too late to go to farm house to
wash. Use my canteen for washing and
shaving. Breakfast. Bacon, bread, coffee.
Clean gun, anticipating inspection. Lt. divides
us into two parties, one to dig and construct an
observation post in woods, a wonderfully
sheltered spot. Chinese about, cooking dinner.
Boys parley with them. English are not very
well liked. I go out over trench system again
with Lts. We find many more miles of ditch,
some uncharted. Must study all over again.
New points of strategic importance. Puzzling
in the extreme. Even Lts. staggered at times.
Go over roads, through woods. Follow
offshoots and CTs to get better idea of system.
Use glasses at odd moments. From distance
attempt to pick out our Post. Impossible. Can
see no movement whatever at point
approximately near our Post. Train glasses on
object in different direction. Pick up
something that appears to be a post of some
kind. Make everybody curious to see my
discovery. Many things suggested. We push
forward later in its direction and find object to
be latrine in woods at far end of our sector.
Bombs burst not far from us. Lt. notices
English walking about in camp and roads
wearing gas masks. It occurs to him to try it on
us. Line up to put on and adjust. Start across
trenches and field, over wire and bridges with
gingerly steps. Can breathe fairly well in mine,
but rubber binds so that my entire head hurts. I
doubt if it is possible to wear for an hour at a
time. A great relief for all of us when we are
ordered to remove mask. Bathed in sweat and
a welt on face where mask was. Pick up party
in woods at work on observation post. Take
tools with us. It looks like a half holiday.
Dinner on arrival. Cooks’ best efforts
expended on it. Steak, mashed creamed
potatoes, onions, bread, coffee. Rest until
2:00. Write. Intend to go to show. Lt
announces names of men who will be
permitted to go to Company Headquarters.
Must not stay in or go to any other town.
Forbidden, unless pass is obtained from
Major. They will bring back mail and take
letters for posting. I offer to buy a bottle of
wine if eight letters are brought back for me.
Since I have received mail on Tuesday, I do
not expect any. Thought I was making a safe
offer. Write until it is too late to go to matinee.
Take a nap until supper time. I bag (big?)
mess after I go for water to bathe and boil
clothes in. On way I meet two company men
who are quartered near farmhouse. They come
back with me to visit. They are envious of us
for being so well fed. Cheese, jam, bread,
coffee. So much that I cannot eat it all. Finish
changing clothing, put old clothing to soak
and boil. Our English friend has been hanging
about all day. His actions are very suspicious.
Almost ready to start for evening show when
Lt. suggests we try out our snipers’ rifles.
Clean bores and set up small targets in range.
Dandy guns. All five pepper target. Most of
men do well. More difficult targets to hit are
suggested. A cartridge case upended in sand
embankment. Difficult to see, same color as
earth. A piece of white put behind it. One man wastes five shots on it. Lt. takes four. I put a
hole in it first try. Later other men make it
three times out of five. Grows too dark for
further shooting. Clean bores and put away
guns. Suggest that we go to crest of the hill to
watch big guns spit fire. A terrible
bombardment has commenced. Far greater
than any I have yet heard. A combat in the air.
Locate source of firing by puff of smoke and
flash of flame. Stay for a few minutes. Go
back. Find boys have returned from town.
Eleven letters for me. I must buy wine. Too
late tonight but tomorrow will do. Set to
reading them at once. I strain my eyes in the
darkness. 8:30 before I give up my pleasant
task. Eat a sandwich of cheese and bread left
from supper. Disappointed that men have
brought no chocolate with them. Remain
awake. It is our tent's turn to do guard duty. I
am first shift. No one goes to bed until late.
Want to observe and listen to battle and noise
prevents sleeping if they are so inclined.
Lights are lit in two tents, which I must order
put out. Lieut. gives orders for tomorrow.
Colonel and Major expected to visit us. Will
look over ground. On guard, I pace up and
down a few times, then sit down on bench. It
is a dark night. Hell is let loose. Flashes of
light from cannon and rockets appear in bold
relief against sky. It is a misty cold wind that
blows. I am a bit nervous. Would very much
like someone to talk to. Tired, too. Very
watchful though danger a minimum
probability. Firing is all from us, judging by
the sound. Pass my post every fifteen minutes.
Would like a bite to eat. KP gets up. I ask for
bread. He tells me where to look. I find some
marmalade, too, making noise getting to it.
Wake Gillece at 11:55 to relieve me. Tell him
of storehouse and turn in. I cannot sleep. Not
on account of nerves or thoughts. It is the
noise that disturbs me. It keeps up unabated all
through night, A visit from Fritz at 4:00 AM.