Author: Irving Greenwald: 

Date: 19 April 1918.
Location: At Sea in Danger Zone England.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Friday April 19, 1918
Weather: Cloudy, Cold
Health: Headache all day.
At Sea - Danger Zone - In England
Up at 6:00. On guard in boat 2A. Fearfully
cold. A strong wind is blowing. Land is in
sight to starboard. Five rocky promontories
can be seen. Fleet riding close together. Must
lie down in the boat to shelter from the wind.
Have two pairs of gloves on hands. Still cold.
Side of head gets full force of wind. Get out of
boat to escape wind. Relieved at 8. Nothing
sighted except flying fish. Leggings I brought
up with me to dry on cable are missing. One of
our men saw some one remove them but did
not recognize him and cannot describe him.
Go hunting for them but I cannot find a trace
of the culprit. Tell Sergeant of my
predicament. Advises me to take some one
e1se's if I can find a pair. Consider that unfair.
Would rather get scolding myself. Breakfast.
Oatmeal, egg, bacon, coffee. Make another
search for leggings. Find a pair on line which
were probably those of man who took mine.
They are size smaller but I manage to make
them fit. Downstairs to roll pack amid great
confusion. An inspection of company on deck
after much excitement. Check taken on lost
articles. Land much nearer now. Numerous
mountains as far as the eye can see. Go back
so far that they look like low hanging clouds
against drab sky. Trawlers and fishermen
numerous near coast. An outgoing convoy
sighted. Object seen in distance which
resembles a periscope. We watch it for a long
time. Decide that if destroyer which passes it
does not remark its presence we have been
mistaken in our surmise. Remain on deck.
Read and smoke till mess. Dinner, only edible
part of which is pudding. Meat fat and tough
as leather rejected by all. On deck again to
look at land which appears to be same as that
we saw two hours ago. Read and listen to
supply company men gossip. Boat guard at
2:30. Boat drill taken off. Ship is out of danger
zone. Cheering subdued. Port of Debarkation
plainly in sight. A Half hour after guard is
relieved, we pass within fifty yards of floating
mine. Ships scurry to safety. One of them cuts
sharply across our bow. All follow in single
file. Ride in that formation until supper tine
when they all slow down to await pilots. We
are off again. Ship's name plate put up. Pilot
and Captain hold an impromptu reception.
Queer harborcraft, such as gas lightship and a
side wheel steamer sighted. Cheering from
passing ships. Destroyers leave us. We wait
outside of bay for opportunity to enter inner
harbor. A most wonderful beach in sight. A
select summer colony on both shores. Houses
all red brick and old tile roofs. Picture of
symmetry and good order. People seen on
shore through glasses. Anchor in river, too late
to dock. Remain on deck until dark. Shivering
from damp cold until I can no longer bear it. I
go below to stand near to steam pipe for
warmth. Mullin an escort, leading cheering
and singing, American songs. Adjourn to hold.
Dancing, games, horseplay. My headache
begins with intensity. Lie around. Toss around
until I manage to fall asleep. Wake up at
10:30, craving a drink of something hot.
Coffee has been ordered by men playing cards
and will be down shortly. Write a letter to
Leah and Mama. Coffee comes. The best drink
I ever tasted. Very hot. A perfect lubricant.
Thoroughly warmed up. Quite comfortable
now. Continue writing. Sandwiches come. I
buy two. Good meat and jam. Up until 3:00.
Feeling fine. Dream of home. A dangerous trip
ended. I am pleased. Would very much
welcome shore leave to look about town and
city. Have utmost respect for British now.
None but creators could plan such wonderful
cities and keep such magnificent lawns. Wealth apparent on all sides. No evidence of
hustle or hurry. People move about very
cautiously at night. Curb lights in streets are
out. Houses all darkened. River front shows
only necessary lights.