Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 25 January 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Friday Jan. 25, 1918
Weather: cloudy, snowing, cold Health: good
Birch and Walcott ordered to Washington making two vacancies
Up at 5:30. Great excitement. Company competition and review by Colonel of whole regiment. Capt. McMurtry tries his very best and expect us to shine. Reveille. Breakfast, Pettijohns, bread, butter, coffee. Inspection of quarters. Outside. Everybody resolved to do their best. It begins to snow. Given a final word of caution. Our band falls in and we are off. Balled up at first halt before Colonel. After that we keep going round and round. I am dripping with sweat. I walked more erect than I ever have in my life. I looked straight in front and when we passed the Colonel and heard him say, “That line is good,” it was worth the effort. Then to the firebreak where we have a competition among our 4 platoons. Capt. McMurtry reviewing. We did very well with the exception that we dropped two guns at “stack arms” which, while an offense, was allowed on account of the condition of the ground. We present a perfect platoon line. Good in manual and physical exercises. 4th platoon goes out next and gives us close race for honors. Captain decides in our favor. Three cheers. At 10:30 we go out to compete against crack platoon of each company in the regiment. I did perfectly. I tried like hell. Only a few minutes but very tense. Boys stay out in snow to watch those that follow us. One company the report has it, is giving us close call for honors. Result in doubt. Mess after rest. Fried oysters, bacon, soup, coffee. Captain announces at Mess that we are winners. Three cheers and visions of a three day holiday. Lieut. Cook also makes promise of passes, etc. Read. To YMCA to see picture on the training of a soldier take in and gives important points on squad salutes, manual, etc. A little hike and singing till time to enter auditorium. Interesting picture. Back for Retreat. Announcement about passes, by Capt. vague. Shoot crap and lose all my money. Supper, beef stew, plums, beans, coffee. Lieut. Cook wants to see us in platoon room at 7:00. Makes us a little speech telling us how proud he is of us, that the plans of the exhibition have been changed. Only one platoon from the whole regiment on the stage instead of three, which means that we must brush up on everything over Sat. and Sun. to be able to beat out competition on Monday morning, before Colonel. Would we be willing to give up passes on account of it? Well, I guess so. We agreed. I must telephone Leah about this. Clean gun. Shine shoes. Read. To YMCA to telephone Leah. She is glad. Wants to come Sunday. Will let her know. Back to quarters. Watch a crap game. Get into an argument. Wash leggings, belt. To bed at 11. Drill uppermost in my mind. Sleep well.