Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 29 June 1918.

Nationality: Australian

Text:


Sat. Jun. 29, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Fair
Hike to Battalion Hdqrs. at ........ and
to ........ to take up duties. Sleep in a
bed, in a room, where there are roses
on the table in a vase.
I am the first awake at 8. This gang is getting
lazy. They are still asleep. I must wake them.
It is perhaps past breakfast time. There would
be much grumbling if they should miss
breakfast. They realize the importance of
getting out quickly. Go up together. Rubin has
orders to bring me bread and coffee. I am
feeling much improved. Look over what I
wrote to Leah yesterday. Do not find anything
of interest in it. Decide to destroy it and begin
anew after breakfast. Lie down while I wait
for men to come back. Aeroplanes are up on
both sides and are being fired at. Frenchman,
who hit Del Duca's pistol yesterday, is at
practice again. I get nervous, but decide that I
am just as safe where I am as any place else.
Bring me rice, bread and coffee. I start fire to
warm coffee. Boys admire my patience while I
try to keep it burning. They declare I cannot
be very sick if I can spend so much time over
fire. General, Major and Adjutant, also
Colonel are out looking over their sector. They
almost come in upon us, so close do they
come. Yet, we are not aware we are being
observed. I do not believe they know our
position. I plan to do some washing, before I
begin to write. Take too much time to decide
whether I will or not. He who hesitates will
not wash, so 10 o'clock finds me writing a
letter to Leah. I go over events of yesterday.
At twelve o‘clock I am still writing. Take I off
my shoes and stockings, leggings and blouse
for greater comfort. Dinner time comes. I am
urged to go to mess. Dress so that I can. Take
paper, pen and ink with me, in the event that I
must wait. I can improve the shining hour. It is
indeed a shining hour, a red hot sun and a
beautiful blue sky. Mess has not yet arrived. I
sit with my back to a sapling and resume
writing, which displeases Del Duca. I am
made a target for sticks and stones. I am
amused when I casually glance at Lenehan. He
has had his hair cut. Barber leaves a tuft of
hair in the center of his head, which gives him
a most ludicrous appearance. He is not aware
of the barber's joke. Mess arrives. I do not care
for anything, but coffee. I get a cup and some
bread. Coffee is hot and creates an appetite. I
get some steak too, which I relish. I do not
remain very long, fearing I will be sent back
with the dixies. Return at once to my writing
room. Lukas goes to YMCA in town to get
crackers and newspapers. Returns with
crackers for me. Write undisturbed until 4:30,
munching crackers, birds my only
companions. Men are away to town or with
rest of company. Writing a very long letter.
Sgt. Fiske calls. Gillece and I are to roll packs
and report to Batt. Hdqrs. at 5:00. It is almost
5 now and quite impossible to carry out
orders. Remember my experience of Thursday
and finish my letter writing without hurrying.
My greatest accomplishment for Leah if my
letter arrives safely, 20 pages. Roll my pack.
Work quickly but do not hurry, for Gillece has
not yet come. Look at my rifle. It is nearly all
rust. Make a hurried cleanup. Men are back.
Have had a good supper. None left for me. I
know where I can get some. Say good-bye.
Will see comrades later. Company moves into
lines later to-night. Sling pack and we are off.
Some hard trudging going up hill. Fortunately,
heat of day is over. Go slowly as I possibly
192can, yet I perspire so that I am wet through.
Steep hill knocks us out for a time. We must
rest. Stop in kitchen to fill our water bottles.
Get doughnuts and bread for my supper. Keep
pack on. Perspiring and panting. Eating in that
condition increases my stomach distress. Go
on to Hdqrs. in woods without a halt. Sgt.
Fiske waiting for us. Others there. As I
expected, we do not start until dark. I no
longer grow angry when, on arriving an hour
or more after appointed time, I am told that we
are hours too early. Unsling my pack. Talking
to Tallon who is grouchy. A message is to go
to E Co. from Hdqrs. Sgt. Fiske suggests that I
take it. I protest that I am tired and wringing
wet. No avail. I must go. Go off road two or
three times. Manage to get to our Co. Hdqrs.
See Captain to whom I deliver message. No
answer in return. It is much easier going up
hill without pack. Company going up hill
singly to assemble in wood. Aeroplanes are up
to observe movement. Quickly spotted and
fired at. On way back stop in kitchen for a few
more doughnuts. Lose path on way back to
Hdqrs. A fine scout am I. Lose 15 minutes
finding direction. Dusk when I get back. Not
yet ready to start. Get news of A Co. 3
casualties. One gas case, serious, 2 slight
shrapnel wounds. Reread letter to Leah, while
I wait. Off through forest road at 9:15. See
nothing of E Co. Sgt. Major in a hurry. Too
fast a pace and no rests. Through ........ where
Hdqrs. will be. Stop there to rest and await
further orders. Expect for a time to be
quartered there. Orders to move on to ........ .
Gillece and I set out alone. To war at last. A
dark road for a half mile through the town.
Quiet as death. A column of ghosts coming
toward us. Think I recognize Lt. Griffiths. No.
To our left, signals rising, white and ghostlike
into the darkness of the sky. Gillece suggests
we load and lock our rifles. Not a bad idea. I
think more than I talk. Asked what I would do
to a German. Nothing, I do not want to see
any. A trifle nervous and perspiring. Sit down
to rest against a wall to regain my composure.
Off again in ten minutes. Meet limbers. Ask if
we are on right road to make sure that we will
not wander about all night. A camouflaged
road all the way out. Walking at a fast pace
brings us into town at 12. Only one sentry
stopped us on road. In town there are more.
Nothing to be seen but ruins, every house in
the town torn by shells. A light at junction of
main street and road, coming through
shuttered windows. Perhaps these are the
sentries. A French canteen. One man inside
going over accounts, turns to the right.
Nobody. A peculiar odor. Gas? Stop to sniff.
Undecided. Iodine? Yes! Next, a guard. He
does not know where we can find Lt. Leaves
his post to inquire, a foolish move. Comes out
with definite information of value. Next place
where a light shows, we are to inquire. Ruins
everywhere. Another guard comes up in the
darkness. A ray of light through a window. A
familiar voice from a dim figure. Kenny. He
does not know where Lt. is. Black will know.
Here he comes. All the men are here. So glad
to see them, as after absence of years. We
follow them in direction from which we came.
A column of troops coming in. Lt. not yet
arrived. Halt at a house still intact. Shown
where a shell struck a few hours before,
smashing wall and street. Himpler and Maloy
on guard. Ask us to relieve them. For some
unexplainable reason I object, aggressively.
Inside. Once a rich man's place. Holy pictures
on walls. Beds, quite a few of them in rooms.
Screened candles for light. Windows shaded.
Unpack. Rest. Discuss question of guard.
Draw lots. Three more shifts to be done. 6 of
us present. 3 numbered slips, 3 blanks. I draw
a blank. No guard for me. Gillece from 2 to 4.
To ring klaxen and wake men. Edit Leah's
letter before I go to bed, because I find some
free censor envelopes about. Just what I have
been looking for. To bed, fully clothed. Town
193is frequently shelled so it is not advisable to
remove clothes. Wonder if Leah knows that I
am in danger; that I have walked cautiously
through a ruined city, ready to take a life or
protect my own. E Co. comes in while I sleep
and go into line, unnoticed. No activity of any
kind comes to my knowledge. Maloy has a
swollen face, which reminds me that he slept
near Ferguson, who died of Anthrax. I
question him as to how he feels. He thinks it is
an insect bite. Biggest adventure.