Author: Ernest L Muzzall

Date: 11 October 1918

Text:

On the morning of October 11, we had orders to entrain at 5 a.m. the next
day. Captain Eshelman of our company was a man approaching fifty years of age
and a disorganized person and much disliked by both men and officers which
added to our difficulties. My orders from the battalion adjutant’s office were to be
at the railway station not later than 4:45 a.m. and our camp grounds policed. I
have neglected to state that for two weeks prior to shipping out we had been
removed from the barracks and quartered in squad tents. These had to be strictly
policed and made as near spotless as possible. I had allowed time on our morning
schedule to do this by getting the company out at 3 a.m. At the last moment,
however, the Captain decided that he personally was going to inspect every pack
and ordered me to call the men off from policing the camp. Since the walls of the
tents were rolled, this meant that newspapers and other litter blew all over the
grounds. After the Captain had checked all the packs we were told that we could
not wait any longer if we were to make our train. Upon arriving at the station a
major from the adjutant’s office called the Captain aside and in my hearing,
upbraided him bitterly for the condition the camp we had just left. This infuriated
Captain Eshelman and it was impossible to get along with him for many days.
After a short train ride we arrived at Norfolk and boarded the transport
U.S.S. Madawaska, formerly the Prince Wilhelm II. On the ride down three more
men came down with the “flu” and were taken to the hospital. The next day,
October 13, we sailed for France. We were convoyed at first by two aeroplanes,
which stayed with us until we were well out to sea, two battle ships and a whole
fleet of destroyers and sub-chasers. On the second day out we were joined by a big
convoy from New York. There were seven ships in our original group but I was
never able to determine the exact number in the new convoy but there were many and all camouflaged making them look very weird. Every fifteen or twenty
minutes or so all the ships would zig-zag to make it more difficult for submarines
to attack, we were told, although I never could understand why this was so. The
weather was very stormy and the ocean extremely rough. As a consequence, there
was much sea-sickness and it was a mess. Again, I was fortunate. I frequently felt
queasy but never got really sick.
All the able-bodied men in our company were assigned to some kind of duty
or another, some on fatigue duty, others on submarine lookout. Nothing was
allowed to be thrown overboard and there were no outside lights at night, not even
a lighted cigarette.
The battleships and other naval vessels left us when we were ten days out of
Norfolk leaving us without any protection except our own bow and stern guns.
The weather became especially violent at this time. We were told later that it was
planned that a convoy of submarine chasers was to meet us at the time the
battleships turned back. One of the large transports out of New York had
developed engine trouble and was left behind. I wondered how it would feel to be
aboard her and was thankful that we were not on her. However, she limped into
Brest a day later without having had further trouble. On the eleventh day we
travelled without any armed escort, a perfect set-up for attack by submarines but
apparently there were none about. 

On the morning of the twelfth day a whole
flock of submarine chasers appeared suddenly from the east – a torn-up and
battered looking lot. They had come through exceptionally violent weather
accounting for their lateness. Needless to say we were happy to see them, to say
the least. The next day, October 26, Cape Finisterre appeared on the horizon at
about noon. Four p.m. found us in the inner harbor of Brest. So ended a rough and
hazardous voyage. The only pleasing thing, as far as I was concerned, was that
non-coms of my rating and above were entitled to second class staterooms and first
class dining room privileges. We had the third large table in the officers’ quarters
with white table linen and Filipino waiters. The other tables were occupied by
ship’s officers and Army officers.

While unloading of the ship began at once the troops did not disembark until
the following morning. The nature of the harbor at Brest is such that large ships
could not dock, but cast anchor in the central harbor. All supplies were unloaded
onto large scows with shallow draft. Men were taken off on lighters, moved to the
wharves and unloaded. Brest was a very old and drab city, especially along the
waterfront. As we hiked through the city streets the windows were filled with
women and old people, while the sidewalks were filled with children and young
people too young for military service. They all cheered as we went by. It made us all feel good and quite important. We were soon taken down several pegs,
however, by American troops going in the other direction who shouted derision at
us. “You won’t feel so good tomorrow when they put you on the stevedore gang!”
And, sure enough, on the following day many of our men were on the gangs
unloading the ships.
We hiked several miles through a downpour and in the mud past the old
Pontenazen Barracks constructed and used by Napoleon as his headquarters at one
time, we were told. We were billeted in a little plot of about five acres surrounded
by a high stone wall overgrown with trees and vines. The rain had been coming
down so long that water actually stood on the ground. The squad tents, each
holding eight men, had been pitched only the day before and the job had not been
very well done. The tents were so slack that water gathered by gallons in the slack
canvas and some came through. There were no floors in the tents so we were
compelled to put our shelter halves on the wet ground and lay out our blankets on
them. There were no ticks or straw. We came through the same area on the way
home and by that time there were wood floors, ticks, and some calking braids to be
shredded for ticking. For food preparation we had a canvas fly stretched over a
small area. Two depressions covered with sheet metal for cooking, several G.I.
cans for making slum, and a few pans for the preparation of other food. The
command tent and those for the commissioned officers had wood floors, stoves and
folding beds.
Upon arriving here the captain found orders to send all of his able men back
to the docks in the morning to help with the unloading of the ships. By the time we
were to roll out at 4:30 a.m., practically all were wet through with no chance to dry
out as it was still raining. We learned later that it rains most of the time in Brest.
After the men were fed the inevitable slum, they set out on the five-mile hike to
Brest, to return to be fed between 7 and 8 p.m. and all very weary. This was to be
the routine for the few days we were in this camp. The second night a high wind
blew down many of the tents, creating a very bad situation as the men had to try to
put them up in the dark and in spite of the gale. As the men tramped about the lot,
it became more and more muddy – a dismal situation. A permanent detail soldier
told us it rained about 340 days out of the year. We could well believe it. We lost
eight men to the hospital with the “flu” at this period. On the third day 60 men
were detached and sent to the northern front and with them went my good friend
Wilson, now a corporal.
