Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 2 July 1918.

Nationality: Australian

Text:


Tue. Jul. 2, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
Up at 6:00. Wash and police or rather clean
house. Breakfast. Bacon, hash, bread, coffee.
My wash on line is still wet. Dishes must go
unwashed, which is all I have to worry about
this morning. When the working details are all
out, I go upstairs to read and write. Lt. goes
off alone, leaving orders for Gillece and me to
go on post in the afternoon, after mess.
Continue writing for more than an hour, when
I have occasion to go outside. Hardly do I get
under shelter in the latrine across the street,
when a whizz, close by, bursts with a loud
report, and the kitchen force and all those
remaining behind, who were in quarters, make
haste to find shelter in the dugout. When I
arrive, there are our men and a half dozen
signalmen and linemen there. They were
taking down dead wire near OP and were
apparently spotted by German observation
198balloon, which sent a recommendation that
they be shelled. Hell, Jerry almost made a
good job of it. Only one man was frightened,
not hurt, but instead of running to assigned
shelter, he goes elsewhere. Not two minutes
later than the first, another arrives doing
damage to the terrain, and sending in linemen
from another job. With the third, I arrive in the
dugout. I find a red, upholstered, velvet chair,
tip it backward and take advantage of my
enforced lay-off from writing by settling
myself for a nap. More and more shells come
over, the bursting and flying shrapnel finding
many a target in the courtyard of the villa and
on the roof. It must have been a respectable
thud to he heard in the cellar as each flying
piece hit the roof. An aero up to watch fire
effectiveness. He is shelled by us, so close to
our town, that the shrapnel falls into the street,
through the trees and in the garden. A shower
of missiles for a time. Linemen tell of previous
similar experiences. After half an hour, I fall
asleep in the chair and do not wake until it is
all over. One or two men are still there, but I
doubt if I would have been awakened by them
had they gone away, which they were on the
verge of doing. In that case had a gas shell
come across, I would have been in trouble.
Upstairs to write again until noon mess. Roast
beef, meat balls, bread, coffee. So very good
that I ask for more. Get a pistol, issued with
clips of ammunition. Now I want for nothing
more in the way of arms. Guns, pistol, etc.
hooked up and Gillece and I go off to war
again, together with Sgt. Kirshner. To a boyau
and along more than a mile of winding
trenches, narrow, with shored up sides and a
boardwalk floor. It is hot, helmet is heavy, no
room for comfort, too narrow in some places
to pass, without going through sideways.
Perfectly hidden from view by Fritz. Sweat is
pouring down my face and into my eyes, so
that they burn, until I can no longer see. A
never ending walk, which might just as well
have been accomplished by going over the
hills and through wood. Lt. Cook not at Hdqrs.
when we arrive. Del Duca is telling the men
how he did it last night. He was over the top to
look for Huns and ran into three of them, who
ran back, leaving a bag of grenades behind.
Cpl. Wall also has had a brush with the Huns.
E Company had quite a bit of excitement last
night on the whole. Many of the men had their
ambition to take a shot at Jerry satisfied. One
casualty. Weaving is shot in the head. Not
seriously injured, Taken to base hospital. Del
is worshipped by the boys and officers. Capt.
is all smiles. Del is glad to see me. I listen to
him. Anxious to get a drink of water. None
about. Do without. Observation post is only a
short distance to the right. All fallen trees and
a tangle behind camouflage screen, into a Ct.
and we are there at first bay of line. Evidently
an old bombing post. Little protection against
observer being observed, and as far as I can
see no view of enemy lines at all. We look
right down into our own, where men go about
unconcerned and exposed to view. I might as
well get completely into open with my glasses.
No view there either. Post cannot be improved
upon for field of view. Sgt. climbs a tree, but
neither can he find German lines. No use
going back to quarters yet, so sit in the little
shack after camouflaging door opening with a
dead pine and installing an old stove for a
chair. Look and look, but can see nothing. Sgt.
and Gillece go further on to scout for a better
position, leaving me alone, where I am in
danger of being picked off by a sniper, if I
become too observant. For a half hour or so I
observe, and seeing nothing I rest sitting on
the first of two steps, where I fall asleep for a
while. Awakened when pipe falls out of my
mouth. Take another look, just as
unsuccessfully as before. I have had enough of
that. Sgt. and Gillece come back. We all go up
to Lt. Cook's quarters once more and sling the
bull. Lt. McDougall, Sgt., Gillece and I go
199over map, look wise and ask each other what
we think his next move will be. An exciting
sport. I guess and take a chance stab at
locating points and Fritz' motives in attack,
which is taken as seriously by Lt., as though I
were a General. We kid him along for a half
hour. Sgt. Kirchner goes back to quarters and
we go for another futile hour's observation at
the post. Nothing to report. Lt. Cook is in
command, this time, when we are on safe side
of screen. He looks and acts like Robin Hood
and his robber gang in the woods. He and
McDougall take the map and register "deep
thought" stuff in order to make up a list for to-
night's patrol and their place of action. We are
not consulted by the doughty Lt. for which I
am glad, since I am a better man with a pick
and shovel than I am a scout and I know
nothing about the sector. Some men from the
Company must go on a gas guard in the city
tonight. They are taken away from a
comfortable rest, told to roll their packs and
follow us, who are ready to go in. The same
long tiring walk through the trenches, though
this time not so warm a job, the sun being low.
Meet Thurn in the town. He has been out all
day and is bringing back a story of how a
Colonel questioned him and found him a very
intelligent young man, asking his name, in a
tone which implied that promotion will be
certain in the near future. Back to town for
supper of salmon, rice, syrup, bread, coffee.
Rest a bit and begin a letter to Leah in return
for two which I have received from her in the
morning. They are of the fifteen that are
missing and answer all the questions that I am
in doubt about. She has had two letters from
me, written at ......... . In one of hers is
enclosed a postal from Mr. Modole, who
inquires of her about me. It is a touching
reminder of regard in which he holds me. I am
sorry I have forgotten him. I write until it is
dark and then by candlelight with blinds
drawn. Lt. and Sgt. go out on a job, taking
with them 7 men, probably to stay out late.
Does he purposely avoid calling on me, when
the work entails danger? It seems he does. I
am thoughtful. I do not want him to do that. I
go to bed at 10., making myself as
comfortable as possible by removing shoes
and stockings and gas mask. Talk for a half
hour with Maloy, across the room, about
Staten Island. Gillece talks in his sleep.
Windows are open and it is comfortable. Sleep
well.
