Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 20 April 1918.
Location: England.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 

Saturday April 20, 1918
Weather: Rainy, Cloudy
Health: Headache
In England
Up at 5:30. Reveille. We are in dock. Monster
structure of brick and steel. It is warmer.
Slight drizzle falling. Suburbs on other side of
the river now present a perfect picture of
order. Every house built of identical material,
same color, same height. Well kept streets and
beautiful lawns. Promenade decks of ship.
Buy a newspaper from boy who comes up
gangplank which is guarded to prevent men
from getting off. Auxiliary cruiser, one of our
escorts on trip over, warped to pier 6 feet
away. Get some information about trip from
seaman, also names of towns opposite and
other information of value. Fill canteen with
fresh water from city supply. Rations are
issued. Loaf of bread, an apple, two hard
boiled eggs, a slab of cheese and a can of bully
beef. Packs are made up in readiness for
moving. Hold policed. Lie down till 2:30.
Miss my dinner. Relieved just in time to move
with my company. Run into mess hold. Get a
slice of ham and some hot coffee. Go to
infirmary for pills. Company L man there who
has slipped on deck and broke an ankle. He
will go to hospital to be forwarded to his
company when he recovers. Company
assembled on deck, marched onto pier and
outside to railroad yards. Much of interest. See
an English bobby for first time. Overhead
railways, compartment cars. Freight cars about
half the size of ours marked to hold 6 tons. We
travel in 3rd class railway cars. Compartment
just holds 1 squad. Off to "somewhere in
England". Houses of poor along RR track, all
neat. Red brick and red tiled roofs. Children
have wonderful complexions, red cheeks.
Women, red noses. Only old men and small
boys to be seen. They wave to us and cheer
from backyards. Boys go wild at sight of
women and girls, also taverns and beer
advertisements. Out in country, evergreens,
flowers of every description in spite of cold,
damp chill. It has stopped raining. Old trees,
great stretches of farms all under cultivation,
pretty lanes, fine rustic bridges, mostly sheep
grazing, few cows, many quiet streams.
Railroad sidings full of loaded coal cars, soft
coal. A number of collieries and large
factories on line. Stop at station. Cannot buy
candy. Another hour to next station. Most
beautiful country in the world. Not a single
frame house to be seen. Stop for tea served by
girls. Steal around to back entrance of
refreshment house. Come up with officers.
Slink away. Back in cars again. Steam is
turned on. Dark now. We are hungry. Share a
few cans of beef and some bread which with
some water from our canteens makes our
supper. Settle back to read. Boys nap. When
they awake there is singing and shouting.
Nothing can be seen outside. There are very
few lights. At twelve we pass through London.
Make one stop and go on. Have another meal.
Continue reading while boys sleep. High
spirits all gone. Make themselves as
comfortable as possible in little space. At 2:00
I stop reading, take a little nap. Awakened by
guard shouting "everybody out“. On platform
look about. Not a thing to be seen except
outline of what seems to be a large factory
against a high cliff. Ask guard where we are.
Surprised at his answer. Check of company
taken in whispers. Follow an English officer
into town where we cannot see 2 feet ahead of
us. Houses only dim outlines. March for 10
minutes, then halt and retrace road. Ordered to
converse in whispers only, to show no
cigarette lights. Masts of ships visible in
harbor. Search lights play in sky. Stop in front
of large warehouse and go up iron stairs to
outside building to top floor. A perilous climb
in the dark. A big loft with a few men along
walls asleep. Formed for bunk space and left
to make the best of it. Nobody thinks of sleep
for an hour or more. Lie down with all clothes
on, pack for my pillow. Men in barracks are
all wounded. Home on leave. One gassed tells
his experiences. We awakened him. A pitiful
sight.