Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 21 March 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 

Thu. Mar. 21, 1918
Weather: clear, fine Health: good
Up at 6:00. Reveille. Breakfast. Oatmeal, steak, coffee. Police platoon room. formation outside. Detail work to be done by entire first platoon. Lucky dogs. We are taken to parade grounds and put through squad movement, etc., line into column and reverse, manual, marching and halting, reversing. Reminds me of 2 months ago, a period in which we worked often on that field. Ground in poor condition. Holes filled with water, stumps, etc. There is a tingle in air for a time. Dispelled by a warm sun, warm enough to work without gloves. Captain does not spare us. He works us without rest and at a stiff gait for two hours. Major is at field and he must be pleased. Of course he is not cold or tired. Back to barracks. Allowed to fall out. Announcement is made that all equipment must be out for inspection, which will be made by divisional or training officers. Time set for 2:30. Make display as on preceding Wednesday. Finish before mess. Dinner. Roast beef, potato, peas, coffee. There is nothing to do after mess but wait. I have a hunch that inspection will not be in time. As afternoon drags on that proves correct. I want to write but cannot, afraid will not be able to hide writing materials quickly enough, when attention is called. Want to read but fear book will be an obstacle also. Lie down on an empty cot and wait. Doze off and nod many times. I make a strong effort to keep awake. Read a newspaper. It is hot, sultry in quarters. Go to window for air. Let feet hang over sill and watch boys in firebreaks playing baseball and football. Time drags on. Major comes from somewhere near at hand, all dressed up, asks for Captain. Hopeful sign that inspection starts soon. Doomed to disappointment, still nobody inspects. Instead we are called outside for formation. Must take belt from exhibit and disturb everything. Entire company out. New squads personnel announced. Everybody in company, including men from Camp Devens, is assigned to squad. 7 squads in each platoon. More than we have ever had. Company divided into platoons, and drilled for 15 minutes. Retreat follows. That referred to, to straighten out tangle. Work over, I immediately set about writing. I purport to finish writing to everyone to whom I am in debt. Write Leah. Shortly after retreat, officer appears. He specializes in shelter tents, and slickers. Another, who inspects shoes, comes along. Mess, frankfurters and sauerkraut, mustard, potato, coffee. Civilian brother of one of our new men is playing piano, so that while we wait for supper, which is late, account poor fires in kitchen range, boys sing, whistle, dance, and accompany piano with mess tins. Put away equipment. Continue writing until 6:00. Make bunk and go back in Mess Hall, where Mullin is directing an orchestra consisting of piano, drums, large and small, jazz instruments. He sings. That makes fine music. In spite of disappointment, not receiving pass, I am interested and amused a willing effort of boys to try make things as pleasant as possible. It is really good music. Officers have come over to sit in. I stay and write. Concert over because Civilian must make 7:03 train. Let him go reluctantly. We do without him for a while, but spirit dies out. Write to Mama, Lou Steinberg, Nuck Sachs (a very hard time). Mail my letters. Lukas slumped out of bed, sounds as if my bed suffered. Have a bite to eat in kitchen and go to bed at 11:30.