Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 15 August 1918.
Nationality: Australian

Text: 

Thurs. Aug. 15, 1918
Weather: Fine, Warm
Health: Fair, Very Tired
Gassed
I sit on the floor with the rest of them.
Sometimes with my mask off, sometimes on. I
try to sleep in it. It grows light. Ordered out of
the dugout so that a fire can be built to burn up
the gas, and that the gas and flies can be
fanned out. Little Jake Allen cannot stand on
his feet, nor can Bowring. Others fighting with
themselves to bear up. Stretchers are procured
284and Allen and Bowring taken to first aid.
Other men taken down the street in the lull
that prevails. Driven downstairs again by
shells falling into the village. Mask off for a
while. The dugout quickly fills with gas.
Hessler working hard to clear it, all the time
with his mask off. When we take ours off we
leave the mouth and nose pieces adjusted. The
air is occasionally pure depending on the
wind, but gas and the smell of dead men
across the street prevails. Not a wink of sleep
yet. Report of casualties soon in. G Co.
suffered heavily from gas and shells, 2 men
dead and buried. E Co. stayed in the woods.
The men who came down with me sent back
with another guide, H. Co. all gassed. C Co.
men gassed and wounded by shells. A costly
relief. All the scouts and Headquarters from
the Major down are gassed. They will feel the
full effect of it to-morrow and to-night. Our
guns are busy now. Getting the best of the
deal. Men trying to sleep on the dugout floor.
No room for me. I want to sleep too. The only
way is to go back to Rgtl. Hdqrs. Jorgensen
and Kennedy are going to F Co., in the woods
where I left them last night. It is on my way
back and they do not know the road, so I
volunteer to show them the way. We go out
quickly, run up the hill past the dead. Rest in
funk hole before I go out in the open. The men
complain of the danger and the pace I set. We
are not fired upon by shells, but I can hear the
bullets of snipers whisk past. By the roadside
6 men carrying stretcher with big Krause in it.
His leg torn by a shell fragment. Seriously
wounded, a brave lad. Meet Coyle in the
woods going to the infirmary. With him is
Greenstein, badly shell shocked. O'Keefe
gassed and Coyle himself in bad shape from
gas. Coyle tells me Longinotti's arm has been
blown off, Schein hurt, Russey gassed and a
dozen others with minor injuries. Rest for a
time in the woods. Attacked with cramps.
Through the woods and into the cluster of big
guns behind it. Down the hill to the
farmhouse. The slope is pitted with holes
made after I left yesterday afternoon. Get
further reports of casualties. Hdqrs. has
established a kitchen here too. I beg for some
bread and jam while thinking that E kitchen
has moved out. My wits are dull. Get a cup of
hot coffee too. Lie down on another man's
bunk with his towel over my face to protect
me against the flies in the big barn. I sleep a
few hours. Move to another barn later. An air
battle directly over us. We seek shelter. The
Hun is driven off by ack G and superior force,
but he knows the location of our kitchens.
Sleep fitfully in a daze, my body twitching
nervously, until mess time. Wounded men
taken away in ambulance. Dinner. Steak,
cabbage, bread pudding, coffee. Do things
automatically. See Doherty, who takes me
back with Lt. Woods to ........ where Rgtl.
Hdqrs. are. I find my pack. Lie down in a
stinking barn with a hot slicker over my head
to guard against flies. Badly stiffened, sore,
dopey. Awakened by Doherty to take a
message. I refuse to go back to Batt. Hdqrs. A
long argument with him. I do not reason or I
would not have refused to go; it seems like a
form of hysteria comes over me now. I protest
that McLeary should go. Doherty heeds my
suggestion. Fritz begins shelling the town
now. Get supper in the detachment kitchen
around the corner. Some of our big guns are
firing. They are quite near. The house in
which supper is being served rocks as though
it were coming down around our ears at any
moment. Supper. Potatoes, canned roast beef,
bread and coffee. Learn that a new liaison
system has been established. Messages will be
relayed by 4 posts to Batt. Hdqrs. Now only
necessary for me to take messages to Post 1,
where Mac will be stationed, near the Red
Cross ambulances on the road outside the
town. Pleased at the prospect of not having to
pass dead men. Arrange for bunk space in
285room next to the street. A message comes
which must go to the farmhouse instead of
Post 1. The Sgt. wishes to make sure they are
relayed from there. Full of fear about going
up. Shelling all around us, mostly behind Rgtl.
Hdqrs., where our big guns are. Fritz is on to
their position. The shell fragments rain down
upon us. Some fall in front or us and across
the street. The Colonel outside without even a
helmet for protection. My message is probably
only a dummy. I am well on my way when I
am recalled to get and deliver a real message
and important papers. Some close calls from
flying steel. Hurry as fast as I can to the farm.
It is growing dark, the time Fritz picks for
doing his worst and again I want to get back to
sleep if I can. All in when I reach the farm.
Arrangements for relay are there. Messages
are forwarded from there. On my way back.
Shelling ahead of me. Get into town as a
Boche plane appears overhead. Find shelter in
YMCA, where I buy tobacco, matches and
gum. Cannot leave for some time. MPs order
everyone inside while the Boche is being
shelled. I am anxious to get to quarters, so I
disobey orders and skirting the walls of the
battered houses, I wend my way towards home
amid a rain of steel. Halt every time I hear a
missile whistling towards earth. When the
shell breaks, I hug the earth, listening to the
shell fragments striking upon the house—tops
or landing in the road. As I arrive near my
quarters, a bursting shell sends a shower of
death close to the men standing in the
doorway. Doherty comes within an inch of
being hit. A piece weighing more than two
pounds falls directly in front of our threshold.
I remain indoors from then on. Lie down on
the hard floor and endeavor, by smoking and
relaxation, to quiet my nerves. That is
impossible. The building itself is as nervous as
I. Our own guns and Fritz's shelling rock the
rickety structure during my hour. The door
and the window frames rattle. Sgt. Murray has
another message to go out at 9:30, after I have
removed my leggings for comfort. Doherty
offers to take it up. I marvel at his sudden
display of energy and consideration. Before he
can start, it is announced we are relieved from
duty by Lt. Kidde and ordered to report back
to Batt. Hdqrs. at ........, where are the dead
men. I do not propose to go back there to-
night nor does Doherty. No, not for the
General himself would I go out. Doherty
travels the relay to Post 1. I say some very
fervent prayers for it seems to me that the farm
will be entirely destroyed before morning.
Prayers are a great relief to the mind. I can
think now. I wonder why it is that we are kept
here to be gradually killed off or sent to the
hospital with bad wounds, without a chance to
fight for our lives. The shell is cowardly. We
cannot combat it. They come too fast to dodge
and all that is left is to wait for death. I would
not care if it came were it not for my loved
ones. Because I have them, I trust in God to
save me. I would be glad to fight, face to face
with an enemy the sight of whom would give
me courage. Strange to say, I do not regret or
think seemly about the trip home, which I
nearly was rewarded with. I would like to
come home with tales of to-day and to-
morrow and how the Lord and Leah's love saw
me safely through the inferno. Thinking these
thoughts, shifting from courageous to
fearsome, I doze off. Doherty comes back
swearing to himself that the easy snap he has
had will be over, but to me one place where
there are shells is no worse than another. The
gun duels increase in intensity, with no rest for
us. We are tossed about with the racking of the
earth and the booming. An aeroplane comes
and drops a load of bombs into the other end
of town, taking a large toll. Big caliber shells
drop as close as 25 yds. from us. So close that
they shock me badly. My mind is clear now
but my nerves are all on edge and I cannot
sleep a wink for an hour or more when fatigue
286again becomes imperative and puts me to
sleep. Not long before gas shells come over. I
hear the alarm and adjust my mask. Ordered
off again in a few minutes. Lie awake and find
myself listening once more to the battle in
which men die without having had a chance to
defend themselves. There is a great
commotion directly at our door. Something
heavy is being pulled by men. They sing out
as they heave, like the longshoremen at home.
I wonder what it is. It occurs to me that our
immense naval guns are coming in under
cover of the darkness to take their positions. It
is a horse, which has been wounded so badly
by a shell fragment that is has to be shot and is
now being dragged over the wall of a razed
house into the ditch to be off the road and to
rot in the sun and breed a billion flies. After
that the transport moves on and there is
comparative quiet until another gas alarm is
sounded. I do not mind that. I remark the
guard only smells powder. Wait for a second
warning. None comes. I fall asleep amid all
the noise that follows and in spite of the
shaking of the building. My eyes are bad from
the effects of the gas, my throat is becoming
sore, my legs are played out and stiff from the
work they have done in the last hours. I know
I will be sick in the morning. Another gas
alarm. Shelling until day break.