Author: Thomas James Richards.
Date: 13th March 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

March 13th. Tuesday. A lecture with VISUAL TRAINING for the subject will be given by the officers after dinner to-night. In the practical work I - 17 - fancy my work would pass. But theoretical work as laid down in Musketry No. 1 will probably beat me if called out to speak upon it to-night. I will fight on, however, and have gathered together the following:-- The foremost point appears to be the stimulation of each soldiers powers of discernment and recognition of ranges and distances. Visual training will include a general study of reconnaissance. Targets must be recognised by word of mouth so as to accquaint men with an easy mode of description which may necessitate the use of more or less technical terms. Owning to the different formations of the country here in France, such as villages, woods, valleys and plains, each day or hour bringing forward a change of light effects continual study is essential in the ranging of sights and the recognition of objects. Men trained on the plains of Australia in observing and judging the distance of wild turkey will be lost in the forest and scrub
country near the coast or over water and hills. The tendency of modern warfare is invisability. The uniforms are make of colours that coincide with the natural surroundings, and men are also trained to take advantage of same. Smokeless powder adds to the difficulties of observation. In our army there are two kinds of men the city, and the country man. The former is considered the more intelligent, but he has not been trained to look long distances ahead and to be as observant or as good a judge of numbers or distance as is the country man. Glasses have the advantage of examinating what the men have seen with the naked eye, and therefore are useful in checking their faults in discernment. Four very important headings should be remembered in connection with "Visual Training" they are B.O.E.R. and mean respectively Barrack training, Open air training, Explaination and Recognition. Morning parade. Platoon drill    1 hour Musketry          1   " Bombing          1   " 

- 18 - Afternoon Parade. Lewis gun parts and stripping. Company in attack, practice. Lecture by Colonel Hore at 5.30 on "Machine Gun Tactics". The Colonel was well up with his subject and explained clearly on the blackboard the best positions for the most effective use of a Vickers gun in some open warfare and how ground that cannot be covered by these big guns should be covered by the Lewis gun, or wire barrackades built to turn the raiders or attackers onto the zone of fire. Concealment is the essential point and guns should be used on the flanks as far as is possible. One Vickers is equal to 50 men and with it there is not the same difficulty as with rifles in the concentration of fire. The Vickers has a great advantage over the Lewis in that it has a revolving platform and is water cooled. The Lewis holds an advantage in being easily handled and carried about; particularly in an attack. Here it can be employed as an offensive weapon while the Vickers is a defensive weapon. Only under extreme condition can it assist in an attack, that is when the objective is up the side of a hill or fast rising slope, then it can keep the enemys heads down until our men are upon them. 