Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 13 May 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 


Mon. May 13, 1918
Weather: Raining, Cloudy, Mild
Health: Good
Up at 2:45. Everything dark outside. Stars
have disappeared as if by magic and instead is
a gray cloudy sky. Damp and chill. Madam is
already awake as I go for breakfast. So dark
along road I cannot see ahead of me. I say
another prayer for a safe journey and kiss
Leah's picture on road, no one near. Line of
men waiting for breakfast is long. Almost last
on line. In spite of strict injunction against
showing lights, men are smoking on line.
There I hear stories of air raid which seriously
frightened a lot of our men. Candles are
burning in our open air kitchen to give cooks
enough light to distribute food. Run short of
bacon which holds up rationing. Bacon, bread
and coffee. Men are afraid that during the day
we will not be very well fed, so many attempts
are made to procure seconds. Cause of heated
discussions between Mess Sgts. and men.
Trailer to cooker is already boxed on top to
secure supplies. Rations for the day are issued.
A tin of beef, a tin of sugar and tea, and as
many small hardtack crackers as one wishes to
take. I get my hat filled. Given a linen bag for
food. Handy for toilet articles later. Eat some
of my biscuits to fill up. Get my things
together. Madam has two glasses of milk for
each of us. Ordered to fall in fully equipped
for marching. A package of letters from Leah
almost forgotten. Dispose of them in my
overcoat pocket. Trouble with my cartridge
belt. Men are leaving without me. Get aid of
last man to put on my pack. Start off, bid
Madam a sorrowful goodbye. Pack improperly
adjusted. Have become somewhat attached to
old barn. Think of probability of going to a
worse place. Unconsciously feel for packet of
letters, when a good distance up the road.
Lost. Will go back at any cost for them. Find
in barnyard, dropped while putting on pack.
Start off again at a run. Played out before I
start on hike. Last to arrive at formation of
company. Nothing said. Off quickly without a
fuss at 5:15. Daylight broke at Mess. A brisk
pace is set. I cannot catch my breath. Belt too
tight. Once out of village we take a strange
road. Wonder where we are going. Open my
belt. Feel more comfortable. Two men fall out.
Lieut. warns Capt. pace is too fast. Company
halted, closed up. Start again, slower pace.
Trouble again. One man throws away a pair of
shoes to lighten his burden. Not in our
company though. Find we are heading for
main road along which we first came to billets.
Going again to RR station at ......... . A great
short cut. On road is heavy artillery and
limbers are going up the line. Fall out for 10
minutes. Continue making cuts. Soon at
railhead. Fall out again. Stung by nettles.
Made station 45 minutes ahead of schedule in
spite of slow walking. Surprised that my foot
has not bothered me at all. Much excitement.
Many officials, Colonels, Generals, etc. 
Crowded 40 in a car. No seats. Some of our
men ride on flat car with kitchen. A can of
crackers open in corner of car. Help ourselves.
Warned not to take any. Warning disregarded.
Start slowly. Men tired, lie down on dirty floor
or on each other. Quickly becomes a stinking
mess, animal like. It begins to rain. Only open
door must be shut. Think of men on flat car.
Hungry ones begin to eat. Little food about.
Pass through farmlands, miles and miles under
cultivation. Not many streams. Camps
everywhere. Airplanes, tanks, ammunition
dumps, coolies, English, no Frenchmen. Large
manufacturing towns, water mills, canals,
raceway. Only one large town seen. Every
village, a church. Pass through .......... . At
........ Camp what seems like a latticed fence.
Look closer, sickened by sight of little wooden
crosses so close together that at first I was
deceived. Some two thousand. Hot water at
station. Make tea. Canteen donates crackers.
Pull, out leaving 4 men behind. Arrive at end
of journey, 7:30. Disembark. Wait in rain for
half an hour, getting wet in spite of slicker.
Men who were on flat car a sight for pity, I am
comfortable. Start along road to ......... .
Surprised to find so near to war. Walk along
road lined with empty trucks stored for night.
Why do they not take us? Signs along road
forbid smoking. Rest for five minutes. Men
smoke. Dark now, still raining. Across country
road. Nothing to be seen. Silence and
darkness. Follow blindly. Pass English Camp,
barracks along a tree bordered road. Into
darkness again for an hour. Rest, smoke.
Dangerous. No one prevents. I am feeling
faint, exception a little lost, drink water, regret
it immediately. Off again. Through village.
Angry we do not stop. After an hour men
become so fatigued and disgusted they shout
aloud for a rest. No attention paid to them.
Flashes and boom of cannon across open field.
Men drop back. I have difficulty going up hill
but stick it out. Men shout, curse and swear, to
no avail. Fall out. Fear for them in wet and
dark. Finally reach billets. One man faints. I
am so tired that I bend over gasping for breath.
For first time men are encouraged by a word
of cheer from officers. Not very far. Soon be
in bed. Wake up farm to be billeted. Ours a
crazy dirty barn with three tiers of bunks, only
wire for bedding. Vermin infested. Crazy
house. Off clothes. Slink into middle tier. Lie
there until men are somewhat settled Use
overcoat for covering. Too tired to unroll
pack. Cold as death. Tired but cannot sleep.
Everybody tossing, groaning, moaning,
singing hysterically in slumber. Afraid I will
become sick, though much revived. A
madman, owner of the place stops men from
picking up wood for fire in shed to dry clothes
and warn themselves. Some stay up. They
cannot find a bunk in dark. Pig sties occupied.
A hell hole. My first hard knock as a soldier.
Leah has given me strength through God. I
had intended to take my horseshoe with me.
Left behind in hurried exit. Cpl. Childs has
"Rid-mosect" with him. Tons of tins along
road.