Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 22 July 1918.

Nationality: Australian

Text:

Mon. Jul. 22, 1918
Weather: Fair, warm
Health: Good
Hike to ........ alone.
Up at 7:00. Breakfast. Rice and raisins, bacon,
bread and coffee, no milk. Wash, make bunk.
Get ready to go to the grave of Harry
Schneider. One of the men tells me he has
been there and directs me to where his grave
lies. On the road to my old OP, a spot I have
passed many times. In the little military
cemetery opposite .......... So long since I have
been down that way that things seem to have
changed and grown older. Three aeroplanes up
directing artillery fire, which seems to consist
of gun shelling in German back area. As I near
cemetery, Germans open fire on planes with
high explosives. I duck into the lone barn on
the right of the road for shelter from falling
shrapnel. When planes are out of range,
shelling ceases, giving me an opportunity to
get up gently sloping hillside to cemetery. I
have a hard time locating the new graves.
Almost give up hope of finding them when I
think of looking extreme right, last row. There
are 14 new graves, 12 with crosses at the head,
two with a rounded top marker board. No. 13
is Harry's. I step between some graves to get
near enough to read the inscription on the
board and the identification tag. It is Harry
Schneider, Died June 24. Go to the foot of the
grave, stand at attention and ask the Lord to
rest his soul in peace. He was a good lad,
loved his country and loved his mother. The
planes overhead were within range and, as I
say my prayer, the enemy fires a salute for the
glorious dead, in the air high above as. Turn
back immediately. I have left word that I
would be back in a few minutes, in case I was
called for. Expecting a runner from E would
start for ........ after his breakfast and by now
should be there. Back in quarters. No one has
234been looking for me. My eyes are tired. They
can only be rested by sleep. I take a nap until
mess time. Have to. Must give up attempt to
write more of Leah's letter. Postpone that till
after dinner. Good beef stew with lots of
tomato in it, bread, black coffee. Take a
chance on putting a pair of socks and a towel
to dry before any one calls for me and I wash
them at the pump. Go to the guard house for
some ink. Three of the boys are there writing.
There is very little ink to be had. Back to write
until I am sent for. Appears that I have been
forsaken and abandoned to the mercies of D
Co. At four 1st Sgt. calls to tell me I should
have been working all day, since nobody has
come for me. I am not yet dispatched to my
organization and properly receipted for. Lucky
I do not get an extra month on the work
platoon. Other boys, he says, who have kept in
hiding all day to avoid work, will receive that
punishment, he tells me. Sends me to find as
many of them as I can locate. Go to guard
house to get those men I have seen there. On
my way there, meet Greek Corporal who has
already routed them out. Report and am
ordered to roll my pack, and report to orderly
room in charge of runner. Busy as once. Takes
me long to roll pack. When ready am escorted
up the hill into the woods by Mahon. Hotter
than blue blazes. Sweat like the devil. Wet
from head to foot. Rest once, little more than
midway between town and headquarters.
Arrive there, remove pack, told to wait. For a
half hour I sit down doing nothing. Cannot
finish my interrupted letter to Leah. Nothing
to read, so I take Leah's letters again,
something I had reserved for a few days later,
Asked my name, number, etc., so that 1st Sgt.
could make out a receipt for me. Everybody is
acquainted with the fact that I am a prisoner.
Much questioning and laughter at my expense.
Grind my teeth in rage, while outwardly I
smile. I will be sent to Battalion Hdqrs., where
I can be sent further if my destination calls for
any further movement. First I will have mess,
which I wait for about 15 minutes. More stew,
without potatoes, bread and black coffee. On
my way through the woods to ......... with an
orderly. Hot walking. Rest once for 10
minutes on the road. Arrive at Batt. Hdqrs. to
find great changes have been made. Penfield,
Nichols and Fish have been commissioned and
office is in charge of acting Co. Clerks. They
do not know what to do with me. Ask for Lt.
Griffiths. He is eating. I see him and other
officers at a table. Wait out of sight until he is
finished. In meantime see Tallon. He tells me I
will be court-martialed. He had made out the
charges yesterday. Begs me to tell all I know. I
walk around and to my surprise, who do I see
but the boys playing pitch and toss outside of
barracks door. "Hello Greeny". Oh God. I get
a royal welcome. My hand is wrung, my back
is slapped. I am lugged by Wade. I am mighty
glad to see the boys together. Glad to be with
them. They have been resting since they left
........, doing nothing connected with company
work. Doherty and a Sgt., some Pvts., new
additions to the detachment. Back to the office
to see Lt. Griffiths. When he is finished, I
stand where he will notice me easily. He is
surprised and glad to see me. Comes to me,
wants to know how I am, and tells me he was
looking for me with company since yesterday.
Takes me to barracks. Johnnie Himpler has a
bunk ready for me. Lt. takes my mail,
promises to get it off for me quickly. Ask him
about my pay and other things. Everything
will be attended to for me. Tells me to do
nothing but rest up. Himpler tells me I need a
haircut and promises to give me one
tomorrow. Games stop, boys gather around me
to hear of my experiences while away. From
Lt. I heard that Stewart had died in the
hospital from wounds. Shocking. Hold court,
telling all I know about the shooting, other
accidents, activity, while in town, present
status of the lines, my experience in the ........
235road, etc. A dozen men or more around me
and every once in a while another comes in
and interrupts to shake hands and tell me how
glad they are to see me back. Talk until it is
dark, light candles and continue until Lt.
orders all lights out. A scramble to make
bunks. Boys are all lousy. Warn me not to lie
in hay. Full of vermin. Tallon comes in. Give
him part of my bunk. Must postpone writing
until to-morrow. To bed at 10:30. Boys keep
up a story-telling contest. Besides scouts, the
battalion runners are quartered with us. They
come in late after a hard day's work, as a rule,
and want to sleep. There is so much noise that
they cannot sleep. An argument and a fight
starts as usual. Scouts are pretty mellow and in
excellent humour as is usual when they rest.
At 11:30, it quiets down. Plenty of snoring,
lots of rats under and on the bunks. I cannot
sleep. Bed is hard and I imagine I itch. At
1:30, a big gun in the woods goes off. It wakes
me entirely. Another and another until it
assumes the proportions of a modified barrage.
The noise wakes up one, then another. Men
get gas masks and hold them in readiness. We
are all awake by now, wondering what is
going on. Nothing can be seen, but flashes. No
one gets out of bed. Lie awake trying to tell
from the sound where the gun is and what is
its caliber. About a half hour of fierce action. I
am told there are about 600 guns in these
woods all around us. Everybody knows that in
ten days we move. Four places favored.