Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 18 March 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 

Mon. Mar. 18, 1918
Weather: mild, clear Health: good
Up at 6:00. Reveille. Breakfast. Hash, oatmeal, coffee. Police platoon room. Brooms are as scarce as hen’s teeth. Drill formation. Most of company taken away for detail work. Not enough left to drill or work with, so all go in. Comforters taken away to be stored for spring and summer. Three thick O.D. blankets seen airing. Overalls must be turned in and washed. Overshoes turned in. Do little odd jobs. Read newspaper. Wash overalls, not very carefully. Turn in fleece lined underwear to be exchanged later for woolen. Get a pair of woolen gloves, a pair of leggings, and a pair of repaired dress shoes, marked 10 1⁄2 but hardly 9. Dinner. Roast beef, potatoes, coffee. Drill. Lieut. Mullin with a very small company. Skirmish drill. Probst acting as corporal not up to signals and commands. Result, not a single movement is well executed. He is hard on us. Lots of double time, no rests, and aiming and firing until our arms get tired. Would have continued it longer had we not been called in by company commander. Detail of 25 men taken to Gas House for practice without(about?) poison gas and tear gas. Later, Lieut. Mullen takes remainder of company over, interrupting me for that purpose, while I was engaged in writing a letter. He leads us off into field, not having the slightest idea where the Gas House is. One of the boys directs him. The detail is made up of men from other companies too. Gas masks are procured from M. Co., old (horns?) of older boys of company. As we arrive at Gas House, two of first detail are running out, spit and spatter, because mouth piece causes saliva to flow so freely. Windows and doors of House are opened and we get a whiff of gas. Cannot describe odor. Get a lecture on effects of gas and cautions necessary in inspection of mask, before putting on. I know nothing about inspection so Lieut. in charge does not let us go into chamber. Other boys ignorant on subject. First detail goes in for tear gas. First with masks on and then off for a few seconds. Come out weeping and with smarting eyes. Retreat. Write. Supper. Corned beef and cabbage, very salty, coffee. No one permitted to leave barracks. Company meets in Mess Hall at six o’clock. Every man has entire equipment completed. Get extra pair of leggings, woolen drawers, 2 pair, oiler and ....... each. A government issue of safety razor, brush, towels, combs, tooth, and hair brushes. Finishing letter to Leah and Mama. Go to K. of C. to call up Leah. She is well. Got home very late night before. Write them until 11 o’clock. Back to barracks and take a bath. A big poker game, in which a lot of money is won and lost, in latrine. To bed. Sleep poorly. Not enough covering. Rain, cold in spite of fact that I sleep in O. D. shirt. I have an unquenchable thirst all day. Drink gallons of water. Believe it is caused by decaying tooth parching my throat.
