Author: Thomas James Richards.
Date: 20th March 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

March 20th.  Tuesday. Morning parade: -- Company drill. 

- 28 - Bayonet fighting. Bombing (Live bombs.) Afternoon Parade:-- Musketry. range finding. Rapid Loading. Platoon in attack. After dinner lecture by officers on:-- Patroles. 1700 Lecture. WOOD AND VILLAGE FIGHTING. Staff Major Smythe. In defending a wood, they are different systems, according to the the size of the wood, to be employed. High Wood, Bernafay and Delville Woods are small ones. The German never defends the front edge of a wood or the back edge either. The best way seems to be by putting your strong line of trenches 150 or 200 yards in front and build support lines back 50 yds. or more into the Wood. Digging of complete trenches will be extremely difficult amongst the roots so a strong redoubt system is the best way with tactacle barb wire amongst the trees to turn the invaders onto the strong points. Behind the Wood some 100 yards or more a reserve trench should be placed, and from which counter attacks could be made. The formation of the country will practically decide the position in which trenches should be placed. Behind the crest of a hill is a good place as it will be out of enemy observation. In a wood lanes should be cut and undergrowth removed and trees that are fallen should be done so as to fall towards the enemy, they make good protection from observation and with the branches wired an excellent barrier is made. Artillery fire directed against a wood has a serious tendency to knock down trees and block the whole wood up with fallen timber. In attacking a wood the defender is mostly very nervous concerning his flanks being out of his touch and in the open. Always move your men across open country in open line, and in "Close" country keep them in close formation. But when moving a body of men always keep them under your direct command in close column as long as it is possible: Heavy shell fire will be the only reason for applying open or artillery formation. In "screening" an attack upon a wood have the "screen" - 29 - of men close enough to see one another. In getting onto the other side of the wood always move carefully as there is sure to be an enemy trench covering the fringe of the wood. Advance through undergrowth firing freely. Snipers may be in trees; at anyrate by firing freely the enemy becomes upset and likely to over-rate the advancing partys strength. Men always have a tendency to bunch together: try and avoid this. Villages are usually taken into the general line of defense as there is good protection for the men, good positions for observating purposes and also a good water supply. If the Village is smashed by gun fire the attack will be in waves as on the average line of trenches. The "Leap-froge" system of advancing will be employed through villages. Choose flanking methods of attacking a village if possible. Men should be spread out over open country when being shelled. Shrapnel throws forward 200 yds. and lateral range, 25 yards. If you hurry your men try and give them a rest in a sheltered place before attack. 