Author: Thomas James Richards.
Date: 1st April 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

April 1st. Sunday. In the examination on the following paper, time time allowed was 3 hours and no warning of contents given. Examination paper for Officers at the conclusion of 4th Course 1st. Aust. Div. Infantry School. Tirancourt. No. 24 Notes. i Read the whole paper through carefully before before attempting to answer any of the questions. ii The maximun marks for each question 10. iii In the first question either (a) or (b) will be answered; not both. iv It is expected that the paper will be finished in 3 hours, but if a longer time is required it will be allowed. In any case the paper should be completed before handed in and in every case the Supervisor will mark on each paper the time taken taken by the Student. v Each Officer will be given a number. He will write his number on the top right hand corner of each sheet and each enclosure, but his name will not appear on any part of the paper. vi Write clearly and on the side of the paper only. 

Arrange your papers in order and number each sheet consecutively at the top of the page in the middle, and fasten them together in the left hand top corner. vii Retain the examination paper and hand it to your Company Commander when you return to your unit. Questions. 1. (a) What do you understand by the term moral? By what signs would you detect a decreasing moral amongst your own men, and how would you seek to improve it? (b) What are the characteristics which distinguish well disciplined troops from ill-discipilined troops. 2. Show by a genealogical tree the centralisation of controle and delegation of command in a Battalion. What are the cheif duties of:- (a) The Senior Major? (b) Company Second in Command? (c) Pioneer Sergeant? (d) Cook Sergeant? 3. (a) What are the best methods of judging distance (including range-finders)? (b) Under what circumstances are the ranges of objects under-estimated? 4. Mark clearly on the attached map all the watercourses West of the Ancre and North of an East and West line through Senlis. 5. The bank at V18 a.5.8. North of Senlis Mill is occupied by the enemy as a post in an outpost line running N.E. and S. x through V.12 central with posts at road junction V.18.a 40.13 and V.12.d.1.3. Our outpost line runs through P 29.d.-Senlis.- V.14.c. You are in command of an out-post Company in Senlis and are ordered to take the enemy's post at V.18.a.5.8. How would you do it? 6. Show in detail on the attached Diagram X one of x W? 

the normal formations suitable for the attack and capture of the enemy trenches between A. and B. and C. and D. by one Company. 7. Say what you know about "Night Marches." The following headings will help. General Principals When and why taken how covered etc. General Rules. Guides, Secretcy, noise, formations, precautions, pace etc. Guiding columns in open country by night. 8. What are the duties of an Out-post Comm. 9. You are detailed in command of an advance party to take over a section of trench. What are you duties? 10. State briefly in order of time as far as possible the steps you would take as Company Comm. after capturing an objective. There were 38 officers sitting down to the above paper, and the points allotted ranged from 82 down to 24. I was if anything pleased to secure 54 points and thereby come into a position of 19th. on the list. Lewis Gun. Calibre                                   303 inches. Weight                                   25¼ 1bs.        "      of Bipop.                     2½   "        "      Magazine empty   1 lb. 11 ozs.        "               "         full          4 "    5  " Magazine holds 47 rounds. It is worked by two forces:--i.e. (1) The action of the Gas resulting from the explosion. (2) The Return Spring. -----Parts----stationary. Butt                        Gas Chamber Pistol Grip             Gas Regulator and Key  Body Cover           Gas Cylinder Body Barrel          Mouth Piece Radiator Casing  Clamp Ring. Radiator Barrel 

(Moving parts are) Piston Bolt. Feed arm Actuating Stud Feed Arm, Pinion, Return Spring. Description of Parts (Stationary). Butt:-- On the front end is the Butt Cap which has on it a boss, with four lugs to lock in the rear of the Body. On top is a flange which prevents the Body Cover from coming to the rear. On the bottom is a recess for the Butt Catch. Pistol Grip. It has a wooden grip shaped for the fingers. On the top it has two channels to fit underneath the Body. It is also grooved out to take the Trigger, Sear, Plunger and Spring. On the front end is a recess for the Pinion Pawl and at the rear end is the Butt Catch. Body Cover. Underneath it has three lugs on either side, to lock in the lugs on the Body. On the front are two Pawls called the right and the left stop pawls No. 1 being the left. No. 2 the right. They are both worked by the one double action spring. On top of the Body Cover is a Tangent Sight which is dovetailed on and held by a screw. with an Apature Sight worked by a milled head and screw. On the front end is the tongue which holds the Cartridge Guide Spring Body. Body. It screws into the end of the Barrel with a Square Thread. It is drilled internally in two places, one is for the Bolt and the other for the Piston. The Bolt Way is grooved to form a crusiform. On the front end of this is a recess to take the lugs of the Butt. On the left side of the Bolt Way is the Ejector opening through which the empty cases pass. The Piston Way has a flat bottom to take the flat of the Rack. This has three openings sear to engage in the bent in the Rack. The round one is a clearance for the Plunger and the front one allows the Pinion to engage in the Rack. It is also grooved out to take the Pistol Grip. On the front end is a housing for the Body Locking Pin. At the rear of this is the Hinge pin, on which the Pinion Casing hooks. On top of the Body is the Magazine Post. Behind this is the Cartridge Way. On either Side are three lugs which lock with the Cover. On either side of the Body are side plates which act as safety catches. Barrel. It is tapered from rear to front and fits into the Radiater. It has four On the front end is a left handed thread to take the Barrel Mouth-piece. Four inches from the end is a hole called the Gas Post. On the rear face is the Cartridge Rim Stop, which prevents the Cartridge from going into the Chamber too far. On top at the rear is a positioning stud, which ensues that the Barrel is in a correct position. There is also a Square thread to screw into the Body. Radiator. It is made of aluminium for two reasons. Its lightness and it dissipates heat. It has 17 flanges, thus having a greater cooling surface to the air. On top at the rear is a flat, which allows the magazine to revolve. Underneath it is grooved to take the Gas Cylinder, in front of this is a square hole to take the Gas Chamber. It is split from end to end to allow for the expansion of the Barrel. Gas Chamber. It is attached to the Barrel Band which fits over the barrel at the Gas Post. The exterior of the chamber screws into the Chamber and a nipple fits into the Gas Post. The Gas Regulator Screws into the Chamber and has a large and small hole with the letters L. and S. to show which hole is in the rear. The Regulator is held in position by the Gas Regulator Key. The Gas Cylinder Screws into the rear face of the Chamber under normal conditions the small hole of the Gas Regulator should always be to the rear. Radiator Casing. It is in two parts front and rear. They are both milled and browned so as to deflect the light. The front portions tapered to allow the gas to form a partial vacuum. The rear portion at the rear has three openings, the large one being for the Barrel one for the Gas Cylinder and the small one for the housing for the Body Locking Pin. At the front underneath are two openings. Clamp Ring. It fits over the Radiator Casing and binds. The ends protect the fore sight which is dovetailed onto the block. Moving Parts. Piston. It is in two parts held together by a movable joint, which allows for any want of alinement between the Body and the Gas Cylinder. The front end is called the Rod and has a cupped head to receive the Gas and behind it is four Anular rings which tend to lessen friction and prevent the escape of Gas. The rear portion is the Rack which has 60 teeth to engage in the teeth of the Pinion. At the rear of the Rack is a bent in which the sear engages. On top at the rear is the Striker Post which carries the Striker and the Bolt. Underneath is the slot for the Cocking Handle. Into the rear of the Bolt screws the feed arm actuating Stud. This has four lugs which works in the Crusiform of the Body. On the top lug is a boss which works in the groove of the Feed Arm. The Bolt also has four lugs which turn into the recess of the Bolt Way and take the shock of discharge. There are two Extracters which are sprung into the side also the Cam slot of the Bolt in which the Striker Post works. Two openings of the head of the Bolt: the small one on the left is is for the head of the Ejector and the other for the passage of the empty case and there is also the Striker Way. 


