Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 28 March 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Thu. Mar. 28, 1918
Weather: mild, clear Health: good
A regiment of Signal men and Veterinary men leave camp – in cheerful mood
Up at 6:00. Reveille. Breakfast. French toast, oatmeal, coffee. Police outside barracks and platoon room. Off for drill. It is cold without overcoats. Close order without a single rest period for two hours. Sgts. who have just completed course at OTC are assigned to our company and help drill in signal school. Take up wig-wag system. Shown International codes. Confusing. Fair with semaphore. Play 3 deep and try our hands again at lope for long distance running. Drop out early in game. Feet ache. Muscles in legs ache. More wig-wag. To my credit. I can read it. Dinner. Roast beef, potatoes, coffee. Out on field, easier than yesterday. Pitch tents. Again a poor helper. Much indecision at inspection about disposal of equipment. Witness an exhibition of trench mortar firing under direction of English officers. One has but one arm. Mortar hurls cylindrical shot high into the air and drops into enemy trench 100 yds. distant. We are afraid of consequences at times and cannot resist temptation to follow shot with our eyes when we are at attention. Lts. themselves see firing for first time, so they condone our misconduct. Retreat within 5 minutes after we get back. Company is sized up in each platoon. Officers play ball. Bored into enlisted men’s game in some places. Supper. Beef stew, prunes, coffee. Sgt. Moore who has felt poorly for 5 days is in such low condition that doctor is sent for. Lt. Mullins brings him. Doctor decides it is meningitis and orders company quarantined. Poor Moore. Boys help ambulance men take him to base hospital. His bed is cleared of bedclothes. All his belongings are packed in box, sprinkled with disinfectant and taken to woodshed for storing. Platoon Room disinfected. I write in Mess Hall. Lt. Cook and Capt. having supper there. Great shuffling of feet upstairs, evidence of excitement. Guard posted in hall permits no one to leave or enter. Called upstairs to help enforce quarantine. Tent halves hung up between beds to make separate compartments for each man. Ask Captain for permission to leave to call up Leah as I have promised to do so at 9:00. He advises me not to. Get permission to send telegram. Write and give it to Lt. Cook with instructions to have it delivered at 7:30 in the morning. Mail letters at Regimental PO. Boys who went out before quarantine was enforced are much surprised at what they see. Go to bed. I am much worried about Leah. I am not satisfied with what I have done. Wish I could recall telegram. At 12:30 awakened by shouts of “fire” and bugle calls from all over camp. Out of bed. Dress. Fire alarm rings. I do not see necessity for leaving as we are not permitted to go out. Watch fire from windows until it burns down. K of C Hall, 5th Street completely destroyed. Entire Camp aroused. Companies formed to go to assistance if needed. Our hose cart out with Lieut. Griffiths. Capt. and Colonel up and moving about giving orders. Back to bed. Guard calls for Corporal so loud that he disturbs us even more.
