Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 6 August 1918.
Nationality: Australian

Text: 

Tue. Aug 6, 1918
Weather: Cloudy, Showers, Warm
Health: Good
Up at 7:00. Breakfast. Bacon, bread, butter,
coffee. It is raining, a nasty drizzle. Eat
indoors in a barn, where some of our men are
billeted, to get out of the rain. Most of the
boys there are taking entirely too much liberty
with me. I decide it is high time to put an end
to it. Hereafter, some of the men will not be
permitted to use any nicknames when
addressing me. The company has a formation
this morning. I am very much surprised that
men, who are on the hike and my be ordered
to proceed to-day at a moment's notice, should
be put to work at such a tiring monotonous
business as skirmishes. They go to the foot of
the mountain for the purpose. The only
advantage of having the men working is that
they will be less likely to get drunk. Pity the
poor fellows and am glad, once more, that I
am not attached to the company. Go to
quarters. Wash and police. Hardly finished my
toilet, when the Lieut. announces he wants all
E and F Co. men to take a walk with him. Full
equipment is to be worn. Purpose of formation
is unknown. Some F men are in the other
billets and have been forgotten, another is
asleep in his bunk upstairs, and no one has
thought to wake him, so assembly is very
much delayed. The Lt. is angry. He takes us to
the road leading from the village, and there
begins to hold class. Begins by telling us we
have an easy time of it, but if we have grown
unaccustomed to answering calls quickly, we
may return to our companies, where that
discipline is never forgotten. The guilty ones
say nothing, but inwardly resolve that it is best
not to spoil a good thing. Lt. then apologizes
for calling us without warning, and that it was
a divisional order that had not yet come, when
he spoke to us yesterday. The purpose of the
formation is to acquaint us with the principles
of scouting and observing in open warfare
work. We may have occasion to use what he
will tell us very shortly. Of course that leads to
only one conclusion, as far as our next move is
concerned. He knows that we will draw that
inference and tells us there is nothing official
as yet, as to our destination. Our time is spent
sitting around him on the ground listening to
his lecture. The battalion runners come along
later, to get a little lecture on signaling to
aeroplanes, the same as we received yesterday,
which we have not yet forgotten. After that we
are dismissed to do as we please for the day.
There will be no movement until to-morrow,
we are told, when every man will travel with
an overcoat on his pack. We are to get ours at
E Company. Corporal Doherty and the rest of
us vow not to carry any. There is time left
before dinner to get a handful of plums from
the garden in the road. They are not quite ripe,
yet I eat them. The good ones have been
discovered by others than we and are gone.
Write for a little while and then go for dinner.
It is a prize dinner. We help slice potatoes for
frying while we wait. The company has not
yet returned, which delays our being fed, until
finally we prevail on the cooks to give us our
portions of steak, onion gravy, fried potatoes,
bread, coffee. That is the most tasty meal in a
long time and is so generously dispensed, that
I cannot eat seconds, which were also given. I
have heard that Corp. Kiernan has an extra
pair of trousers, which causes me to look for
him. He usually is to be found in the rooms of
the old couple who live in the back of the
church, but now he is not there. I inquire for
him and while I wait, I have more than a half
hour's very ... conversation in French with
Grandma. The Captain has 400 Frs., which he
will lend in sums of 10 Frs. each to men of the
company, who will apply for it. The list is
filled quicker than a Camp Upton pass list. Go
back to my billet to write. The boys are noisy
and boisterous, due to vin blanc, in which they
264have already invested some of the borrowed
money. In a half hour or so I fall asleep over
my book, after which I resume and finish. Into
the garden once more for plums. Also look for
edible vegetables in the truck garden behind
the house, which nobody seems to own or look
after. Rain drives me inside until upper time.
Supper is served in the rain. Meatballs, potato,
beans, coffee, bread. I eat in another barn,
where I must stay until a very heavy shower is
over. I look for the extra trousers Kiernan has,
where I have been told by him they are. Find
them in better condition than my own and take
them. Next inspect the overcoats, which are
left from E Co.'s allotment, for the purpose of
finding my own, which has a fine pair of kid
gloves in one of the pockets. I find many
others but not mine, so I take none, to have
pack uniform with other men to-morrow. No
one urges me to take any. Called outside,
while I am going over the coats, to see a
wonderful sight. A flock of sheep, so big that
it chokes the entire road, is coming down the
hill. No one has seen it before and all question
what they are being brought into town for. It is
marvelous how they follow the leader and the
obedience to the command of the shepherd
and the fear, of the two dogs, which they
display. Stand a long time watching how the
shepherd goes among his sheep to single out
those he returns to their owners. Everybody in
the town sends their sheep to graze on the
hillside under his care. He leaves sheep and
lambs with almost every householder. They
have distinctive marks on their hindquarters.
The 1000 or more sheep are delivered half in
each of the two streets. There is lots of fun
when the boys, surprised at the army of sheep,
command them to "right dress", "over in file",
etc. Even the Major, who is looking out of a
window, is amused. In my billet with nothing
to do. It is no use writing a letter, as it cannot
be mailed. Look at my shirts for cooties. Glad
to find none. Talk to the men, shave, and start
a letter which I stop writing when the men
come in with two helmets full of nuts and two
canteens full of white wine. They have 3
friends from E Co. with them. I anticipate
little sleep to-night, which is not a pleasant
prospect, since we must be up at 4:30 in the
morning. It immediately becomes very noisy,
everybody talking at once, laughing, shouting,
singing and swearing. I take a few nuts and a
mouthful of wine, stay with them a little while
and go to bed. I am very sleepy and doze off.
In the next room the spirit of revelry grows
stronger. Canteens are being taken downstairs
for refilling as fast as they are emptied. The
jokes and songs become more ribald and the
noise more unbearable, so that it awakes me
and keeps me awake. The medical men
downstairs shout up to the scouts to keep quiet
and let them sleep. They come up to plead and
threaten, when at first they are not heeded, and
say they will report to Lt. Griffiths. After a
while the noise not abating, they do so. The
Lt. calls for the Corporal, who staggers
downstairs, and orders them to put out the
lights and send the men to bed. They obey and
dismiss their friends, afterwards arguing and
discussing the wonderful time they had. It is
not long before they are sick. Black the worst.
Simpson comes into my room and tells how he
just had to let loose to get relief from worry
over a great wrong he has done and cannot
correct, which is causing sleepless nights.
Only he in the world knows. I am sure that we
will know it in a few minutes, and my
judgment proves correct. He talks like a good
boy who wants to do justice to the person
sinned against and I feel sorry for him, but my
good opinion of him is lowered. I too, while I
lie in bed, and all day and for a long time past,
have felt like letting loose, but I have not, nor
would I in such a manner as he has found for
letting off steam. I feel guilty for not having
written to anyone this week and I want very
much to hear from home. No letters have
265come for a long time. I miss many of Leah's
letters. There is no activity of any kind that we
are aware of to-day. The old woman I spoke
with at noon tells of such bloody battles in the
streets of the town in the early days of the war.
My comrades remind me of a mass of
wriggling, restless worms in a dung pile,
during their debauch. Idle, idle all the time, till
liquor gives them something to find interest in.
They now are not allowing themselves a
moment's rest. Each wants to outdo the other
in lewdness.