Author: Irving Greenwald: 

Date: 30 April 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Tuesday April 30, 1918
Weather: Rain, Cloudy, Cold
Health: Good, leg sore
The hardest day's work since I am in
the army
Up at 6:00. Reveille. Go up for breakfast with
blouses on. While we wait on line it begins to
rain drearily. Too far from billets to go back
for raincoats. Get thoroughly wet. Try to find
shelter under coping of barn. But drip from
eaves is as much as from rain. Lets up
sufficiently for us to get our mess of bread,
butter, marmalade and coffee without milk.
Very little for the day's work ahead of us. Lie
down for half an hour. Clean gun a bit. Out for
drill at 7:50 with slickers. Mud everywhere.
Leg causing me pain. Tired before we get to
courtyard for assembly. Difficulty in climbing
hill. Captain leads company off to drill field
without a halt. Wet through from exertion.
Start off with patrol work up and down road
for an hour with no purpose that I am aware
of. Lieut. makes an effort to explain but
captain’s order "forward march" interrupts. On
drill field after company is assembled.
Allowed to fall out for ten minutes. Close
order drill for another hour. Platoon leaders
give us manual of arms. Another rest of ten
minutes. Company moves off again in
direction of home but pass our road. Push on
and go past detention camp and drill f1e1d to
rifle range, up an embankment which taxes my
strength to the utmost. A rest of ten minutes.
Squad out for instruction in Lewis machine
gun. Method of loading shown us. Assembled
and marched home by a short cut. Pleased at
prospect of getting back a little early, grow
more tired owing to condition of road, up hill
and down, through deep mud. In billets at
l2:30, almost too tired to eat though I an very
hungry. Wet through from perspiration.
Dinner. Hard tack and beef stew, tinned. Get a
second helping, enough to satisfy me. Rest in
straw after mess. Fall asleep for ten minutes.
Like going to execution to go up to courtyard
for assembly. Captain stays in quarters. Lts.
take us to drill field beyond detention camp.
Make the biggest effort of my life to get there.
Tempted to fall out. Grit my teeth and go on.
Officers tired too. They know men are too
tired to work and do not push us at all.
Permitted to rest for 25 minutes. Revives me
for a time. Cross road for open order drill.
Corporals drill squads. Callahan takes us to far
end of field where we fake it. Aiming and
firing from prone positions. Restful work for a
short time. Go back much better for short rest.
Change slickers for overcoats to attend muster.
Sgt. Corras appears in formation drunk.
Captain much annoyed by his remarks but
feigns not to notice him. Pigs run about yard
interfering with business, causing laughter.
Wait for retreat. Dismissed for day.
Thoroughly fagged out and disgusted. Write
until mess call blows. Supper. Bully beef,
bread, coffee, not enough. I write until eight.
Decide to look for something to eat. Go to
village for some chocolate. None in town
except for small pieces for which they ask too
high a price which I will not pay. Meet our  cook who tells me of a canteen, a mile and a
half distant where things can be had cheap.
We make for it together until we meet a man
on road who tells us canteen closes at 8. Go
back to billet, hungry. Almost lose my way in
the dark. Reilly, bunkmate, has not made up
our bed. No candles. Make a mess of job in
the dark. Cannot sleep, too tired, for an hour
and a half. Then blankets become twisted and
cannot be righted. Get up three or four times
to straighten them. Unsuccessful. Cold all
night. In the morning, while resting, I think of
my wedding day and whether Leah looks at
my clothes hanging in the closet and wonders
when I will be back to wear them. Not much
to be heard from the battle front. Only a few
deposits heard. A great many horses come
from front going in direction of railroad. A
motor truck with a damaged aeroplane is seen.
Plane has broken propeller and twisted wheels
showing every indication of a serious accident.
Activity in the air confined to a few hours in
the afternoon. Single planes go over flying
very low. From height above rifle range new
towns are seen. In one an anti-aircraft gun is
plainly seen mounted on top of tallest
building. Many complaints about short rations
made to officers. We learn from British they
are fed same as us. They do not work as hard
and can do with less food.