Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 6 June 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:


Thurs. Jun. 6, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
On hike. .... Kilometres to ........ .
Up at 6:00. Appear at Reveille. Create quite a
sensation. Must be directed to place in proper
squad, because I have not been at formation
since shift in platoon organization. CO
announces that packs and blanket rolls will be
made up according to list given out yesterday.
No mention of time set to move. Breakfast.
Rice and apricots of which more can be had,
bread, coffee. Go about preparation for movement at once. Take down tent, make an
inventory of belongings and a quick decision
to disregard list for my own judgment. Put a
lot of extras in squad roll. Make up pack with
overcoat and slicker rolled on top. Slicker
should be in pack, but I see no occasion for
carrying it. A dry country. Order issued to go
to Bombing Field at 9:00. Changed to have us
assemble with packs in field. Take guns and
gas masks. Remove all American gun slings.
March to Field #1. Do a few company
movements. Ordered to ground arms and
forward march. How easy to get away with a
dirty gun. Back, wait a few minutes. 1st Sgt.
details me to take a money bag to Battalion
Hdqrs. Same contains money with which to
pay off company, an event occurring at 6:45.
63 1/2 Frs. collection debts due me. Report to
Sgt. Major with bag. I should have given it to
Sgt. Newton. He is at Field #1. Go there - not
there. Back. Ask. He is eating lunch. Meet him
coming out of his billets. Too busy to talk. He
really has a lot to do to get ready for
movement, which begins at 4 PM. Meet
company going out with belts to dump
bayonets and ammunition. Recalled to report
for bombing. Field on road to baths, a few
trenches, a place to throw from and another to
throw into. A steep bank, running to the road,
down which we go half way for protection
from shrapnel. First 15 minutes, instruction in
parts of the Mills Grenade, then we throw
three bombs each until 12. After I throw, I am
placed on guard for 10 or 15 minutes. Watch
process of throwing and explosion from safe
distance of 100 yds. A big column of earth
domes up from the hole and for one minute
after small stones and pellets of mud play
tunes on hats of men. When I throw, I am a bit
nervous. I do not throw very far. Back for
dinner. Pork and beans, something the boys
have not seen of for 2 months, bread, coffee.
Final meal in town. Police up. Many
formations for the purpose, but I am not in any
of them. Unexpended portion of day's rations
given out at which I help. Butter, bread,
cheese, jam. Cigarettes and matches from the
308th Association. Formation to draw our own
rifles and ammunition interrupts formation of
our company at which iron rations are
distributed. So some men do not get any. Help
at issuing rifles. They are the self same rifles
we left at ......... . Ammunition familiar looking
too. Overcoats ordered removed from packs
and put into blanket roll. Slicker in my case
goes with it. Pack much lighter. Impossible
burden as before. Our parting police formation
and we are off we know not where. Turn
corner and wait there for 3 quarters of an hour.
Boys fill canteens. Some get beer or wine.
Surprising. Officers permit it. They are at wits
end, wondering where we go. Rest of
Battalion comes up. We lead, and start South
by West along an unfamiliar road. Still very
hot. Choking dust. No breeze. Load of pack
bothers me only a little. Fall out. Major and
Sgt. Major let on that we have 30 miles to go
to railroad head and have 3 days to do it in.
Stunned to think that anyone has the nerve to
ask me to hike for 3 days, a thing I would
never think of doing on my own accord. Men
drink copiously. Many borrow from me. I give
grudgingly because they drink more than is
good for them and again they are told time and
time again to fill canteens before going on
march. Winding down the road we attract the
attention of an airman. He swoops low and
flies over our heads to see who we are. See
smoke from railroad station so disbelieve tale
of hike. It is not possible that we walk where
there is railroad. Meet up with 1st Battalion.
Sweet is with them. H. Schneider too. Halt to
let them pass by to take lead. Really an
inspiring thing to see so many men trudging
under heavy load, cheerful when it is most
brave to be cheerful. Supply wagons, cookers,
trailers, water carts, all the paraphernalia of
war. Our battalion, as an organization a work worthy of praise, but still energy misdirected.
When passing through villages, the men sing
"Hail, Hail". The English must have no cause
to doubt our courage. On road, unobserved,
only a few songsters in action. Dust caking on
clothes and clogging pores. Mucous from nose
black. Feet beginning to burn. Blister on heel
of right foot. On last march, leg muscles and
joints stiffen. Passing through section where
French are billeted. Interested in us. Stop at
RR station. Expect to entrain. Cars pass by,
gates open. We go on. Halt on other side. Fall
out while officers arrange for billets. None to
be had. Get permission to use a field. Seems
made for purpose of tenting. Supper ready in
an hour. Men scour town for eggs, bread,
milk, chips, drink. Throw myself into tent.
Paired with Upham, Sgt. Rest. Eat jam, bread,
cheese. Feet hurt like the devil. Sweat is
chilling. Only one blanket. Try to, heat tent
with candlelight. Many lights shown. A big
flare from kitchen grease burning. Attracts
airmen who pass over us for defense. Get hot
coffee. Feel better. Lie down to shiver alone in
tent. Sgt. has taken his blanket to Kaplan‘s
tent. Glad to be alone to pray for courage to
continue and for health of my wife and baby.
Smoke for calming. Manage to sleep a bit in
spite of cold, noise of brawling outside, and
disgust at Upham's breach of manners.
Restless and cold all night. We are evidently
near to lines, judging from the sound. French
tell us of shelling of nearby points by Fritz.
Capt. pleased with day's work. He is non-
communicative.