Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 8 August 1918.
Nationality: Australian

Text: 

Thu. Aug. 8, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
Hike 3 kilos to ........
Up again at 6:00, sore in limb and cold. Go
to the door to have a look around. We are
passing through flat, level country over which
hangs a low, thick mist, making it impossible
to see more than a few hundred feet. But what
we do see is not a very pleasant sight. We see
graves, thousands of them all over the plains
by the railroad tracks, by the roadside, in
among the trees, where there are a few, by the
side of the stream. All we see, men buried
where they fell on a bloody battle field. Nearly
all Frenchmen, who lie buried here. Single
graves, double and triple graves, and in a few
places larger plots, all well kept with a railing
around each, a little wreath, a wooden cross,
and the emblem of France on a circular
cardboard from which hangs a ribbon,
tricolored. A flag flies on some of the mounds,
which is faded from the rains. On the plains,
wheat, rye and oats grow around the dead,
most of it newly cut and tied in stacks left to
dry. Passing a town there are dead in a truck
garden which has been cultivated up to the
very edge of the grave. No one disturbs the
dead. They lie where they have fallen, by the
railroad track, close to the ties, so close that
our legs which hang as we sit on the floor of
the car by the door, almost graze the crosses
that mark the graves of the men who rolled
down the low embankment. We see coolie
laborers again, who are building and fixing
roads. They live in barracks, hundreds of
them. Big six inch guns and gun carriages,
monster 10 and 11 inch guns mounted on
railway trucks, ponderous, solidly built trucks
that impress one with the power that lies
within them. Big shells almost as tall as a
small man, so wide around that it would be
difficult to encircle them with one's arms.
They must be lifted into the guns by cranes,
they are so heavy. A French camp of barracks,
which stretches for kilos on both sides of the
tracks, a hospital, captured German guns,
damaged and salvaged guns of our own, and
piles of aeroplanes, engines, planes and
bodies, stores, trucks and a thousand other
things of war. But every inch of ground bears
grain or potatoes or something else. No doubt
now, where we are going. I look at the map to
see where we are now. Most of the men are up
now. They are asking about breakfast. We
make no stops for more than an hour, then we
stop at ........, a large station where are civilians
and soldiers. Good to see prosperous looking,
cleanly dressed men and women; but all in
black; old-faced people they are. Seems that
they are seeing their sons, brothers and
husbands off to the front again, after their
furloughs. There is a chance to buy a French
newspaper, fill our water bottles and wash.
Have breakfast. Bully beef, pork and beans
and hard tack biscuits (French use bread). All
anxious for a cup of hot coffee, but none in
sight. We wait patiently for a coffee stop,
nursing our thirsts as best we can. Some
drinking cold water. I smoke my pipe to
quench my thirst. Level country mostly, little
water, few hills. At ten-thirty we stop for
breakfast. Some trouble getting somebody to
268believe we should be fed. I get a cup of coffee
and some bread and bacon. The train starts
before I can get back to my own car. Make a
stop where the train crew and the officers get
their orders. After that we are not allowed to
get off the train when it stops for water. Many
guesses where we are going, because we are
close to and on the road to Paris. Pass some
American boys bathing in a brook. Shout to
them to find out who they are. Much surprised
to hear they are first battalion men of our own
regiment. This means that we stop close by,
right behind the ........ lines. Our transport
waiting for us at the next station. Then I lie
down to take a nap as there is nothing more to
see. Use the pack of a medical man for a
pillow . Disturbed in a few minutes when the
order comes to get pack ready. I fix up mine.
Order comes that canes may not be taken with
us. Hate to lose mine; it has been a great help
to me. We get off the cars. Orders are very
strict regarding the general police of the men. I
am told to button up and asked to fix a lot of
minor details. We have an hour and a half to
walk to our billets, we are told. Get to the head
of the street where the column is halted,
because there is a trainload of Italian soldiers
sprawled across the road. A load of French
just pulling out in the opposite direction,
riding in compartment coaches. Chaff between
the French, Italian and Yankees make it look
like a lively picnic scene. There comes word
that our billeting orders have been changed.
From ........ we go to ........ which is a shorter
walk. Uphill through beautiful little town as
pretty a little place as ever we have been in.
Stores of all kinds, a market, solidly built
houses and a substantial bridge. Very hot
hiking. The sun is out full strength, so the
doctor orders just a half hour's hike and then a
fall out of ten minutes. Around the turn and
down the hill to the second little village is our
home for a little while. We are near a creek.
Pass it before we get into the town square,
where there is a single well which constitutes
the water supply for the town. Down another
hill to the last house in town, where nobody
lives and nobody cares for the garden behind
the house. Good bunks in 7 or 8 rooms, all
light and airy, but dirty. Put my stuff down to
claim a bunk and out on the grass to lie down
for a nap, which I want more than anything
else. The flies and bees, which are most
numerous, annoy me, but I manage to get a
little rest. There is a swift, babbling brook
down an embankment, which furnishes power
to the paper factory just above us. It is good to
bathe in. I get a towel and clean socks. Bathe
my body and feet, which is most refreshing.
Unroll my pack and hang up my things on
nails which are plentiful. Doolan goes
scouting for supper rations, comes back with
some things he needs and gets potatoes direct
from the garden. I write until supper time. We
have corned beef hash, new potatoes, coffee.
Write again until time to light candles, when
the boys come in to sit around the table which
we have in the room. It is fairly cozy and a
pleasant place to chat. This is the first time
American troops have been in the town. The
French were the former occupants. They have
built themselves good bunks and have tables
and other comforts. Eggs and wine are cheap
as a result of no Americans having been here.
The inhabitants are not aware of the wealth of
our soldiers. The people are very hospitable
and give us anything we want, gladly. The
children get us wine or fruit in return for the
hard tack which they consider a delicacy.
There is a big aerodrome at St Cyr about half-
way distant between Paris and this place and
all day long the machines are up, most of them
flying very low. From the distance can be
heard the dull boom of cannon, very much
modified by distance. Most of the boys cannot
hear it. We are ordered to wear gas masks,
helmets, belts, full ammunition and rifles or
revolvers, a ridiculous order, which everybody
269up to the Major rebels against, because the
Frenchmen and Americans of other divisions
go about without any arms, or even masks. We
are so far behind the lines that there is not the
slightest reason for issuing an order like this,
except as a disciplinary measure. The officers
are doing their best to have the orders
rescinded on condition that the men comply
with the ruling strictly. For the sake of
novelty, I take my breaches off, naked. Get a
good night's rest. We have a lot to say before
we fall asleep about the prospects of the war
ending soon. A lot of faith put in the recent
gains of the French and the Americans at
Chateau Thierry. Caissons move. Even the
English are getting into the spirit of Aliens and
duplicating our victory.
Fri. Aug. 9, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
Up at 7:00. Dress and go next door for
breakfast. Bully beef, cold bacon, hard tack,
coffee. Busy myself immediately with
washing my undershirt, socks, handkerchiefs
and the pair of breeches I got from Joe
Kiernan. Look for a pot or something to boil
them in. A youngster hoeing potatoes in a field
helps me to locate a big kettle at a little
cottage which is uninhabited but not
abandoned. The people are visiting
somewhere and what I take must be returned
as soon as possible. Get water at the brook and
use the kitchen fire to boil my things on. I
notice all the men are cleaning their guns. I
think they are doing it of their own accord for
want of something better to do. Rub my
clothes as well as I can without soap, seated
on a bench in the kitchen, when Kapek tells
me that I had better clean my gun, as there will
be an inspection at 9:30. I think he is jesting
and inquire of the Sergeant. Kapek is right. I
leave my washing and go over my gun
hurriedly. Lt. Griffiths will look us over with
respect to the guns, masks, clothing and feet.
Doherty again gets a call about E Co. men not
having overcoats, as soon as the Lt. reviews
the detachment, which the Sergeant has
formed. He finds fault with many guns being
polished well on the outside and showing lack
of attention to the barrels. Next he goes over
the matter of ammunition. It has become
common knowledge that the men in their
travels have thrown away cartridge clips to
lighten their burdens. Some of our own men
are notorious offenders in that respect, Farrell
and Ernst particularly. They have none at all in
their belts. The Lt. tells us it is a trick as old as
cartridges themselves. Hereafter every man
must be able to account for 100 rounds of
ammunition in their belts or be charged with
the cost of cartridges not accounted for. The
Colonel is with us this morning and has issued
strict orders to that effect, besides directing
that only men with full belts are seen on the
street. Doherty and a number of others with us
are fooling themselves by having borrowed
what ammunition they are short from men
who are not standing inspection. I have the
best record but one. My belt contains 90
rounds. Only 10 short. Deys, the only one who
legitimately has 100 rounds. Ordinance is
made for 1500 rounds for our small
detachment. Next gas masks are inspected.
The Lt. thinks mine is bad because it does not
rattle. Told to see the Battalion Gas N Co.
about it. Nothing gone over. Of course, my
pants with two big holes in them come in for
comment. The Lt. is satisfied with my
explanation that I have a better pair in the
wash. Feet inspected. My feet are in good
condition. They feel good after yesterday's
bath. The Lt. compliments us on having a fine
lot of feet and tells us how to keep them in
good condition. During that inspection I see
the Gas Sgt. going along. I hail him and ask
270him about my mask. He tells me it should not
rattle, contrary to what the Lt. says. Therefore
my mask is OK. Tells me that we move again,
time unknown, to the north, where a clean rifle
is an asset. Suggest we put them in top shape.
Dismissed for the day. Go back to my
washing. I finish it as fast as I can, under the.
circumstances. Spread my things on the grass
to dry. Time for dinner now. Not much to
anticipate. Bully beef, hash, hardtack, coffee.
Lie down on another's blanket in the sun and
toast myself for an hour. Hear the dull boom
of war in the north. Does not disturb me in the
least. It is a sound I am accustomed to.
Aeroplane motors buzz overhead continuously
but I pay no attention to them. Bothered by the
flies and thoughts of home more than anything
else. Too long ago since I have received mail
from home and I have a guilty feeling for not
having written to Leah and Mama for so long.
My connection with home has been broken
and I am miserably homesick and restless. I
will try to write a letter to Leah now though
for the life of me I do not know what to write.
Go indoors where there are many flies. Put a
handkerchief over my head and in that way get
a little relief from them. Write indoors until it
gets too hot. Go outdoors where it is too
windy and too many spiders crawl about.
Finish up inside where I began. Time for
supper for which the boys have dug potatoes
and picked stringbeans from the garden at our
disposal. These are put into a stew with bully
beef, which is by no means a success. The
bully beef spoils whatever good there is in the
vegetables. Also hardtack and coffee. We have
had so much hardtack by now that the men
throw it around, play ball with it and give it to
the children. Feel as though I would like to
take a look around the vicinity a bit. Shave
and wash up, a refreshing feeling. Take a walk
to the paper mill upstream, going without gas
mask, or anything else. See some of E
Company men in the field. The remainder of E
Co. scouts come to visit, largely for the
purpose of seeing how much money they can
borrow for drinks. They are as anxious as I to
go to ........ where the hospital is to look
around, but do not know that men are now
prohibited from going to town. Back in
quarters to write until Lieutenant comes to tell
us we must all carry 160 rounds of
ammunition to-morrow, when we move, and
must personally go to draw what we are short.
After I have come back from my walk, the
boys tell me that somebody has been looking
for me in company with Allen, the runner who
has directed him to where I am quartered. I
cannot imagine who he is. From the
description the men give me of him, the only
person I can think of is Abe Gold, but that is
rather improbable. After I come back from the
supply company, where I draw the surplus
ammunition, I meet Allen again. He tells me
once more that the stranger was looking for
me. He has left a note explaining his identity.
His name is Greenfield and he is of the
Attinson family of Staten Island. He has a note
of introduction to me probably. I am too busy
to look him up. Fill my belt with cartridges I
am short and hook on to an extra bandolier of
60. Write again till it is too dark to see inside.
Look for a candle but cannot find any. They
are scarce as they are not issued with the field
ration. Outside it is still light enough to write
for a while, which I take advantage of for as
long as possible. Orders come to stay near
quarters to-morrow morning, as we may have
to move at any moment. The welcome news is
given us, though that we will have to hike to
the railroad station only and from there will
get transportation in motor lorries to our
destination. That is too good to be true. The
sergeant has a good idea of where we are
going, from what the Lt. lets fall. We will go
up as reserve to battalions ......., ...... and ......,
behind the lines where the Americans are
making such wonderful gains and taking so
271many prisoners. To-day's reports are very
encouraging; many kilometers of country and
thousands of men and guns are taken. I am not
worried in the least at the prospect of going
north where the fighting is so heavy. Resigned
to what I must undergo from now on, taking
consolation from the fact that as a scout, I will
not be as much exposed to danger as I might
be with a company in an engagement. The
other men fortunately cannot go out to-night to
get drunk to screw up their courage, as they
have no money and can borrow none, so they
sit outside on the embankment of the road and
tell each other how many days they will be
dead in a week from now, a custom which I
frown upon. It is always the most popular
topic of conversation, the day before a move
of any magnitude is made. Not being able to
borrow a candle, I go to bed, where I talk to
Schlesinger who has been away from us all
afternoon with Farrell and Ernst for the
purpose of eating. This trio thinks of nothing
else but their bellies and never come back
without telling us how delicious such and such
a viand was. Back of the hospital in ........ there
is a row of graves of American lads who have
died of wounds, except one who died of
disease. A number of men busily engaged
digging new graves all day long. In the
evening, before dark, nurses and doctors from
the hospital are in town for a stroll. They are
chatting happily and enjoying themselves
thoroughly, but I do not envy them at all. The
doctors are kept busily saluting everybody in
town.