Author: Thomas James Richards.
Date: 14th November 1916.
Nationality: Australian.

November 14th.  Tuesday. 
Leave Longueval. We have orders to be ready to leave here at 12.30 p.m. after spending 15 days in Longueval. I have just returned from the prisoners' cage where I found 19 young and well built Germans enclosed. There is something strikingly interesting about these Germans, and numbers of English and Australian troops stand about looking at them and eager to get a few words of conversation with them. Two of the party speak English a little but what they have had to say, other than that, in reply to one of our officers, a German said:- "Well! I thought we were winning the war up to yesterday!!" These Germans are very well dressed, long pants, high top boots, jacket, round loose caps or steel helmets. The colour of the uniform is a dark greenish grey and fits them very well. Practical, thorough and all as the German really is he cannot get away from show and decorative value of a soldier's uniform, therefore he makes his cap pleasing to the eye by a fairly broad band, 3/4 of an inch, of maroon coloured braid. The jacket is faced with thin braid of the same colour, while plain brass buttons set off the front. There is, at the same time, three buttons on the false cuffs and two lines of three brass buttons at the back to cover the ungainliness of the roomy pleat which allows the person plenty of room in the jacket to sit down while the waist band is fairly tight. In front the jacket is long and square cut, and covers up the front nicely. The pants all have roomy side pockets instead of the cross pockets on our clothes. - 11 - The whole effect is plain and yet pleasing to the eye. There is something to admire about those Germans, they move about or stand up with a composure that speaks openly for their strong spirit and air of careless independence. They address our men as "comrade" and butt in for a cigarette or to have one lighted with all the confidence, right to do so and earnestness of a man amongst his most exclusive friends. They stroll about jauntily with one or both hands deep into their side pockets and set up posing attitudes when standing around. They indeed seem unembarrassed by their captivity and all apparently carefree and cool individuals. Ever since this war started I have been greatly worried by the non-existance of direction posts to guide men in their movements from one part of the front to another. Messages are often given to men in small and even large parties to go to a given point. Maybe it is the Battalion Headquarters, or an important Dump (everything is a Dump on this front if goods or ammunition of any kind or in any quantities are stored) and it is only with the greatest difficulty and after much futile enquiring that the place is found. I have even met despatch bearers lost, and more important still, medical men and ammunition carriers lose their bearings and cannot return to their posts. All this confusion is due to the want of direction posts. Sign posts giving names or numbers so that men, particularly here in France, could get their bearings and thereby do their duties more effectively and expeditiously. Fatigue parties have been known to walk right over into the German trenches and be taken prisoners owing to there being no guiding marks along the communication trenches. "True, the ways of the military folk are queer!!" - 12 - I understand that our 2nd Division failed to gain their objective last night in a "hop over" and lost severely. Two German planes hovered over our lines only a few hundred feet high this afternoon. They were 1½ miles into our territory when a cloud lifted and exposed them. I fear they had lost their bearings in the low lying clouds as they got away quickly back to their own side and did not use their machine guns at all. We started out at 4 o'clock and owing to the usual breaks and stoppages we arrived at Becordel at 10 p.m. having travelled only 3¾ miles. We are now camped behind the original British and German lines before the "Big Push".