Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 14 March 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 

Thu. Mar. 14, 1918
Weather: raining, mild Health: good
Up at 6:00. Tired. Check Roll Call. From 30 to 40 absentees. Other men home on pass. Company is only a handful of men. Breakfast delayed more than a half hour on account of poor fires and only one cook working. Bacon, grape nuts, coffee. In mess hall to police. Capt. is about raising hell. Weather prohibits outside drill. Lecture by Lieut. Wilhelm signal practice. Pvt. Cohn. Elementary Class, Corp. Greenstein. In latrine Corp. Rogers, who is latrine watchman, holds court. First time in history non-com is on duty. Fall asleep on toilet bowl. Class dismissed. Practice with Hollifield, standing position at 300 yds. and prone figures. Fair score. Short when officer is about. Dismissed half hour before mess. Nothing has been said about overstaying leave. Dinner. A leisurely meal. Clean during mess. Wondering what we will do next. Supply officer and Sgt. Home on pass, so no fatigue duty of which preparations for leave requires plenty. Ordered out with slicker and rifles. Capt. comes out and is painfully surprised at smallness of company. Officers and men amused. Start for hike along Fifth Ave. to end and back, past 12th Street and back to quarters. It rains before we had gone very far. Expect to be taken back, but Lieut. evidently has orders to keep us out, also my drenched gun shedding water. I know what next job will be – cleaning rifles, wiping rags scarce. Cut a piece off towel. Work an hour. Do a fairly good job. Kaplan comes in to announce company will be paid. I take a book, short stories, wait about. Pay does not appear. Slickers and overshoes to K of C for regimental sing under leadership of K of C worker. A remarkable man. He quickly gets men under his spell. Everybody sings. I make an effort to do my very best. Sustain until comic and patriotic songs. No result. A thoroughly enjoyable entertainment. These are things regard more than anything else in camp life. Supper, spaghetti and cheese, rice, raisins and jelly, coffee. Corp. Haight, company clerk tells me, I am still considered absent until I report in orderly room. Read. To orderly room. Lieut. MacDougall not interested. I do not explain absence. Write. Lieut. Griffiths has all men in barracks go to Supply Warehouse for O.D. blankets. I make three trips. Carry heaviest case of all. Write to Leah. Company paid off. I get $7.83, insurance and laundry deducted. Nine men are in evidence than at anytime during day. Finish letter in great hurry. I must go to YMCA to mail letter and telephone Leah. Basket ball game in progress. Long talk with Leah. Allay her fears for me. Plans for disposal of plant have been changed. Consider sale only. Stay to write to Mama and a letter to Sam at Camp Merrill, though I believe he had already sailed for France. Stay until lights out. Go to Post Office and back to quarters. No one but guard is about. Clear. Go to bed at 11. Sleep well. I am worried all day about what my punishment will be for overstaying leave. I want to explain to Capt., but I haven’t courage to go to orderly room. Captain has been away all day, presumably working out details of departure. Not much seen of him. Big disappointment when Haight tells me that passes will be issued for some time yet. I have probably forfeited mine.
