Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 29 January 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Tue. Jan. 29, 1918
Weather: clear, mild Health: good
Up at 6:00. Reveille. Breakfast, frankfurters, oatmeal, coffee. Water detail. Rest and advice
from Lieut. Cook. Drill outside for a while, then over to YMCA auditorium for drill. Bayonet school in progress. Wait till finished. Work there till time for dinner. I do very good work. Wonder how anyone could be so mean as to exclude me from yesterday’s exhibition. It is cheerful to drill with the boys and not to be an outcast. Dinner, boiled beef, horseradish sauce, potatoes, soup, coffee. Rest and read till 1:15. To colored YMCA to drill. Lieut. McDougall with us. I think he is watching me. A company of negroes comes and begins drilling. We see some very funny sights, especially in manual. They make such a mess of things that Lieut. Cook has to try the expedient of whistle signals. That is too slow and uncertain a method for close order drill. Corporals cannot respond to unison. Lieut. Cook asks officer of Negro Company to give way which he does gracefully. We continue. I have done good work. Back to quarters for Retreat, after which I phone Leah and find her cheerful and well. Worried because I did not call up. I tell her what Sweet told me about my papers and I giver her information I have regarding Exhibition and Drill. Tell her we will be in on Thursday. When I get back I hear that we go in tomorrow night, which pleases me. Called to Orderly Room. A blow in store for me. My case has been decided finally. I write to Leah telling her the sad news, but rejoice that I will be able to tell her myself before letter reaches here. For the rest of the day I am entirely without ambition. Supper, hamburg steak, rice pudding, cocoa. I plan to take a bath and do some washing but am too full of sorrow to do so. I read for a while and fall asleep at lights out with my clothes on. Wake up at 10:10, go downstairs for a little while and go back to bed having accomplished nothing. Say a long prayer from Leah. Do not sleep. Drill tickets for show are distributed. I get six, five of which are together, one a good distance away in same row. Another instance of favoritism. I give an IOU for same. Kotalsky discharged.
