Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 27 April 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Saturday April 27, 1918
Weather: Drizzle in morning, afternoon
fine.
Health: Good
Up at 6:00. Reveille. Go up for breakfast,
Bacon, bread, dates, coffee. 3rd platoon on
police duty. Empty cans and swill barrels.
Police and sweep roads. Prohibits me from
shaving for inspection we anticipate. Orders
are to roll packs for inspection. Grumbling
loud and long. Looks like no holiday. Roll
packs in field, when all set orders recalled.
Rifles, belts, gas masks. Company formed for
drill. Marched past prison camp as yesterday.
Two men fall out footsore. I debate with
myself whether I should. I can barely talk. No
rests. Work on hand is skirmish drill by
squads. Corporal Callahan vexed with
everybody. We get him back to good humor
sufficiently to prevail upon him to give us a
rest. Lieut. comes up and orders us to work
again. Callahan furious. Vents his spleen on
us. Humour him again. Hell to pay now.
Threatens to report all of us. Company
assembled. Lectured about discipline. Back to
billet again at 11. Given 20 minutes to
reassemble with packs in field behind main
quarters. Equipment spread on grass for
inspection. As usual just the nearest glance in
passing by Lieut. Angers us that we are put to
so much trouble for nothing. Foot inspection
ordered. We remove shoes, leggings,
stockings. Asked if my feet are O.K. I te1l of
strained tendons. No attention paid to me.
Pack up. Everything wet and muddy. Sun
comes out. Mess call sounds. Leave
equipment in field until after mess. Beef stew,
bread and coffee. Reassembled to get
equipment. Dismissed for day. Take a short
rest. My first opportunity to wash and shave.
Get eggs and milk from Madam. Out to pump
to tidy up. Do some washing, too. From the
battle front comes again the boom of heavy
artillery. Activity in the air renewed. They are
at it hammer and tongs. No Saturday half
holiday out there. It is rumored that our Major
has gone to front to observe and that he has
been wounded. He has not been seen for a few
days. Hang wash to dry and air out our
blankets. Chat with Reilly. Lie in grass and
write until time for Mess. Bully beef,
marmalade, chili sauce and coffee. Second and
third helpings of beef. More to be had than I
can eat. Arrange to take a stroll in the evening
with Leonard and Eifert. Walk to village.
Saloons are being closed by officers. Men are
congregating in groups on the roads. In most
cases a Tommy in the center of the circle
telling of his experiences and bragging of the
Britons‘ accomplishments. I stop in front of
the ancient church. Discover over the gate a
plate reading 1763. I had no idea church was
so old. Express desire to enter. Graveyards on
each side full of queer tombstones, brass, iron,
marble and some wooden glass enclosed
boxes containing artificial wax flowers. Walk
down a road at random. Run into a courtyard.
Find a road leading to villages beyond. All on
same plan as ours. What seems to be a castle is
seen in the distance. We make that our
objective. It is further away than it seemed.
Darkness falls before we can reach it. Being
afraid we will not be permitted to enter town if
too late in returning, we wend our way back in
the dusk. Stop in shop for some chocolate. It
begins to rain again. Back at 9:00. Prepare to
go to bed. Artillery is still very active. Firing
seems more distant. Gossip has it we are to be
absorbed into existing British organizations
and used as needed. Prospect does not please
us. We would much rather fight under our own
Company. It is easily seen that we will have to
undergo a course of training in British
methods, remaining here for the purpose. Our
officers and non-coms have been ordered to
schools of instruction for a period of two weeks. When they return, we will be asked to
learn a lot of new things and in some cases to
unlearn old. In my walk I see acres of rolling
farm country with patches of green and brown,
usually a windmill at the crest of the hill or a
row of tufted trees, or knobbed trunks which
are ideal subjects for a painters brush. They
invite the camera. If I could only have one to
be able to send pictures to Leah of my
surroundings or if I were permitted, to gather a
nosegay of flowers to send her to let her know
I am thinking of her and baby. A pond
reminds me of a fishing excursion with her, a
lane of our days of courtship. Tomorrow is
Sunday and I will be alone. Not even a letter
from home will I have to read.