Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 24 January 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Thursday Jan. 24, 1918
Weather: cold, clear Flag at half staff - Lieutenant died
Up at 6:00. Reveille very perfunctory. Breakfast, farina, steak, coffee. Police upstairs. Look over gun. Inspection of quarters. Very good. In Mess Hall. Leading drill. Good work. Outside for company formation. Cold. Snow cakes on heels and butt of gun. Fingers freeze. As we have fixed bayonets with scabbards, we must get accustomed to added weight. Lieut. Cook’s comment on our first performance, “Rotten.” He seems out of sorts. Capt. looks us over and gives us another talk on appearance. Hats, belts and overcoats. Orders some overcoats to be shortened, mine included. Puts us through our paces for an hour till our hands freeze. Company always out of step and I am a poor pivot man. Other companies observed doing better work. In manual, we come down excellently, but come up straggling. Told about importance of standing at attention. One of Major’s hobbies. Given a rest at least for ten minutes during which we knock snow off our heels and snatch a bite. When we fall in again, other companies have the firebreak, so ordered in again to air our bedding and clean barracks. Platoon competition. Major Wilson thinks we are OK. Mess, corned beef and cabbage, potato, coffee. Called into Orderly Room by Lieut. MacDougall. My exemption papers returned. Denied. Tell him my case in full. Interest him to the extent that he will prosecute case further and in any case promises me a 30 day furlough and assures me we will not be out of country by time Leah needs me. Two letters from Leah. Go to fill new bed sacks and turn in old. Court Martial in Mess Hall of officer who forged check. Write long letter to Leah. Start a new book. Jeremes’s “Three Men on Wheels.” Supper, roast beef, carrots, parsnips, bread pudding, cocoa. A very good meal. Write to Mama. Go to Acker Merill to have my coat shortened. Buy tobacco, have a drink, buy a cigar for which I have been longing and a newspaper. Back to barracks. Read paper. Reported revolution in Russian and Senator Chamberlain’s attack on administration for responsibility of deaths in cantonments. Read book. A short nap. In Mess Hall to write. Unexpected news of inspection in morning. Shave, bath, wash leggings or rather Sgt. Curry washes them for me. A very likeable chap. In kitchen for cup of cocoa. To bed. Am very tired. Sleep well. Room very hot. I am anxious to get out on drill tomorrow, I resolve to do my best.
