Author: Thomas James Richards.
Date: 25th November 1916.
Nationality: Australian.

November 25th.  Saturday. I have had another day in Amiens. A wet day throughout but nevertheless the rain interfered very little with our (Ned Reynolds and I) getting about. A plate of large mud oysters and some wine was our pleasant opener. One dozen each with bread costs A francs 40. Lunch at the Belfort Hotel was a delightful meal. It was a charmingly cooked and served dinner of full French courses. The total cost was 22 francs, 10 for lunch, 10 for wine and 2 for the girl waiter. The wine was jolly good, everything was good. There were a whole lot of French and English officers about the room but no notice was taken of one another. There is no saluting going on in the streets to speak of at all. I certainly never saluted one man. The Frenchmen seem to salute their officers in a quiet manner when meeting in the cafes or barber shops where the ranker is just as much at home as the officer. We have both heard a whole lot about the large brothel area that exists in Amiens, but after many miles I could find none at all. A few professional women yes, but nothing to speak of. Amiens has many cobble stone paths and the walking made our feet sore. I brought back some snails and on warming them over the fire in the shell picked them out and ate them. The effect was indeed disappointing as they were like a piece of gristle. I don't think they are chewed but swallowed like an oyster. These anyhow seemed too dry to swallow with ease or satisfaction as they were without any moisture only filled in on top with a greasy preparation which I did not consider quite palatable. I ate 8 of them while neither Reynolds or Winzar would touch them. These snails reminded me for toughness of the shell fish like oysters or really a kind of oyster that we used to catch on the Suez Canal. Going into Amiens this morning at 9 a.m. we were lucky in getting a motor car to run right in the 23 kilos in no time, and coming home I got a big waggon at 5.30 p.m. and landed in camp by 6.40 o'clock.