Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 23 July 1918.
Nationality: Australian

Text:

Tue. Jul. 23, 1918
Weather: Raining, Warm
Health: Good
Up at 7:00. Get breakfast with F Co. Bread
and Karo, coffee. A very poor breakfast,
which I am fortunate enough to supplement
with some sardines, which Ellbogen has.
Nothing to do but wash and shave. After that I
will write. A few boys go to work. Most of
them play "cat" in the firebreak. Rifles, belts,
bayonets, gas masks must be worn all the
time. An hour in the morning, the gas mask
must be worn. I get a board and write. Borrow
ink pens from the boys. They would give me
anything I want at any time. Paper is the only
thing I cannot get and that is because there is
none. I must go to the YMCA to get some. It
is closed. I have enough to write for a few
minutes. My eyes tired again and I must go to
bed for a nap before I can do anything. Ask
Gillece to wake me at 10:00. Lie down and
promptly on time I am awakened. Finish letter
to Leah and write one to Rachel, telling her of
the death of Harry Schneider, describing how
he died and letting her know that I went to his
grave and said a prayer, while the guns fired a
salute above us. Dinner, a good one for F Co.
Good roast meat, potato, sauce, rice and
raisins, coffee. There is a good deal of
complaint with F Co.'s mess and its Mess
Sergeant. He guards what he gets as if it were
for his use only. Because he sees me, a new
man on the line, he complains that he must
draw an extra ration. I suggest he can squeeze
one out of the lot for me. "Editorially speaking
he can", says he. After mess there is nothing to
do but write. Get off a letter to Becks and
Esther Karmiohl. Five letters ready for mailing
before nightfall. An afternoon without
incident, quiet. Not an order is issued to me by
anyone. My time is all and wholly my own. I
can do as I please and I please to write. There
is not enough time to do all I wish to. This is
what the men have been doing since they
came back from ........ . I have missed a lot. I
have made a much bigger sacrifice than I
imagined. They have had bathing, time to
write, time to read and what I have been able
to do has had to be done under the guise of
being ill. To-day a detail of F Co. men are
going out to locate lines and make maps.
Some men have gone to the Company for mail
236and other things. The men go to ........ to
straighten out blanket rolls. They will separate
overcoats and underwear from the rolls and
these will be forwarded to us. This has some
bearing and significance on our next move,
what, we do not know. But, does that indicate
the mountains of Italy, Russia or some colder
clime? There is much discussion about it. The
victories of the Americans at Chateau Thierry
is also dovetailed into the discussion. The
general opinion is that the war cannot last long
now. French hold likewise now. We hear of
wagers made about the early ending of the
world struggle. Supper is stew without
potatoes, but plenty of green peas, a good
substitute, bread, coffee. A single gun has
been practicing apparently, all afternoon. Just
aimless lazy firing. We have no intimation of
what is going on outside. The woods are so
thick that we cannot see out of them. After
supper, it rains in torrents. The boys were
again playing cat and are driven inside. I
continue writing till nightfall and candles are
lit. The boys are drinking "vin blanc". I am
tempted to ask for a mouthful but that is all I
can be induced to take. They procure the wine
from Frenchmen who bring it to them under
cover of the darkness, the bottles being carried
in sand bags. They have champagne to sell
too, but the boys have little money among
them. I cannot give them any this month, as I
have not yet been paid, nor have I collected
any of the 100 Frs. that are due me from them.
Have some sardines and canned peaches
before I go to bed. I am offered some more
wine by Black and Conway, who sit outside
the door drinking out of a bottle they have
between them. I try to find someone who will
take some for the benefit of these two boys,
who I am afraid will become badly
intoxicated. No one wants any more. They are
all in their bunks wondering why they are so
hot and feel so talkative. A big, burly
Frenchman comes in after the doors are
locked, trying to sell champagne. He comes up
out of the darkness outside, so suddenly that
for a moment I am frightened and think he is a
Boche. As soon as it gets dark, a rifle or a
pistol shot is heard occasionally and once a
spurt of machine gun fire. I cannot imagine
where it comes from or the cause of the firing.
It is in our own territory and there should be
no occasion for it. A distant barrage is heard
for about 10 minutes and I imagine I hear the
hum of an aeroplane. A few distributed shots
from the gun in the woods, which has done
work earlier in the day and that is all we hear
of the war for the day. To bed at 10, then
change my mind about sleeping. There is too
much noise and the bed is hard. Perhaps I
ought to read for an hour or so? It is a long
time since I have read a book. Maloy has been
reading "That Printer of Udrels" today. It is by
Wright and I have long been wanting to read
one of his works. Light my candle again and
lie on my back reading while boys shout,
swear and fight among themselves. Days, with
too much wine in him, is trying to explain to
the men how many centimes in a sou and
occasionally how many sous in a centime.
Gillece takes a hand. Schlesinger, Syrop,
Farrell, all try to straighten out the tangle.
There is so much wrangling, that the guard
outside must intervene and demand that quiet
be maintained. He tells us that the officer of
the day will punish us all severely, if we do
not simmer down. The runners want to sleep
and threaten to report Farrell. It quiets down
and I blow out my candle. Others do likewise
and in a few minutes one is able to sleep. I do
not realize how tired I really am until I begin
to say my prayers, fall asleep and wander into
unintelligible things. Tallon comes in shortly
after waking me and disturbing me. He wants
to talk but I do not. He falls asleep soon and
begins gnashing his teeth. It sends a chill
down my spine. I must stop up my ears so that
I cannot hear. All night long he disturbs me
237with it. It rains the greater part of the night. I
feel sorry for C Co. in the lines again to-night.
They have the worst luck of any company in
the regiment it seems. They are getting their
baptism of soldiering with a vengeance. Hear
of promotions in F Co. Del Duca and Wall
made Sgts., Guttenberger is sent back to the
States, to act as an instructor. I envy him. Hear
rather late that the French Government has
called in all Napoleons. Have two of them
without knowing about it. Difficulty in getting
rid of them.