Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 5 July 1918.

Nationality: Australian

Text: 


Fri. Jul. 5, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
Up at 7:00. Everybody arises late account
having worked during night. Breakfast.
Prunes, bread, Karo, coffee. We are having
difficulty getting rations from a machine gun
unit, who draw them from Supply instead of
E. Tell the boys of a dream I had during my
last sleep in which I was captured by the
Germans and had a good time. More of my
companions are there than I ever expected to
find. Wash outside, while a number of Heinie
aeroplanes are circling about. They are being
shot at. One group draws as many as 40 shots.
Another battle further north in which almost as
much effort is expended to get an American
plane over their lines. I am waiting for orders
from Sgt. I shave off a big growth of whiskers.
I expect to go to 12 post with Gillece. See no
reason why I am not ordered to do so. Go
upstairs to put myself in way of Sgt. in charge
of details. I find Himpler and Conway have
gone out, which frees us from duty until the
afternoon, after we have had our dinner. A
Good opportunity to write. I take advantage of
Lt. and at the same time talk to Maloy, who is
reading the Staten Islander, recalling different
places of interest and people in Staten Island,
while the boys wonder how it is we know the
same people. It is not long before dinner is
ready. The cooks have been issued fresh meat
for the first time since our arrival, and make
beef stew, kidney beans, bread toasted, coffee.
I have eaten a great deal more than is good for
the comfort of my stomach and wish to rest
awhile before going to work, allowing my
dinner to digest as much as possible. Of late I
have gone to bed every night with heartburn,
204quite severe, and my excreta is streaked with
blood. There is a feeling of inflammation in
my stomach or perhaps laceration of tissue.
Wait until past one and feeling somewhat
relieved of heaviness, get ready to go. Do not
wear a blouse or carry a rifle. No one knows
the new pass word, so I pin a green band,
scout insignia, on my left arm. Halted by
guard at end of town, but get by easily,
pointing to band. There is one spot on the way
up which on passing is sure to bring itself to
my attention, forcibly. On right of road is a
considerable pond filled with bullfrogs.
Sounds like 2 million inhabit it. They work all
day long. On left is a loosened blind in the
window space of a ruined wall. It swings and
creeks in the breeze. The combination of
sounds startles me. I cannot become
accustomed to it, and liken it to the noise
made by a gas shell as it travels through the
air, and I am always on the alert as I pass. The
sun is strong and very hot. Wise to have left
blouse and rifle behind. Up the hill to road and
instead of going up to wood, I turn to the right,
getting lost for a minute. Gillece discovers that
we are not in the right place. We argue about
how to get ourselves on the road again with
the least trouble. I am sure the best way is to
retrace our footsteps. Gillece thinks I am the
most contrary person in the world, before the
discussion is over, but follows me to what
proves to be our road. Into CT and from there
to post without any trouble. Men are paying
strict attention to observation, showing greater
interest than H Co. men, but they are making 7
times as much noise. I tell them they might as
well walk on the parapet. One fellow comes
along shouting Hun in a voice loud enough to
be heard in Berlin. Observation is very good,
but as usual see no signs of movement nor can
anyone else. At times there are as many as
four pairs of glasses trained on the gully, but
no movement of any kind is discovered. A
great disadvantage to success is the flies. As
soon as I have a bead on an object, Mr. Fly
lights and plays on my nose and ears, till I
cannot remain passive. I shake my head or
wave my arms, losing focus on object of
interest. When Gillece watches and I nap, I
must put a slicker over my head to keep the
flies out. I am alone in post at one time when I
hear someone whisper, wanting to know who I
am. I turn around and am told to get down. I
think the order comes from a corporal. As
Battalion Scout, I take precedence and tell him
so. This is my post I tell him, and as he walks
away I see by his boots he is an officer.
Observe nothing to report and at 5:45 go back
to quarters. Pause on road to light a pipe with
my magnifying glass, having no matches. This
is dangerous proceeding. It may attract a shell.
Not having any success, I give it up, going on
to town. Stopped by a new sentinel, walk by
him readily with the excuse that password was
not given to us, and showing him my band.
Get a match and keep on until we wind up in
the kitchen where is Lt. My supper saved hot
for me. Hamburger roast, potato, bread and
coffee. Chat and sit at table with Lt., who
when he finishes his mess tells me he would
like to see me. I am excited by the thought he
has some important mission for me. In his
room are three other men, two of whom are
sent out to bring back report of activity in a
possible raid. Thurn making a report, so long-
winded, that I can hardly wait until he is
finished. Lt. begins in a manner which bodes
trouble, disappointing me greatly. He asks me
to sit down and tells me that the General
insists on investigating causes for late arrival
of message I took down to Hdqrs. yesterday.
Lt. has been removed from official capacity as
Batt. Intelligence officer and I am punished by
being detailed to a work squad for 2 weeks.
That is very unfair. I am by no means attached
to my present job, but to be degraded by being
put on the work squad is by no means pleasing
to me, and I insist it was only 15 minutes from
205the time I left, that I got to Hdqrs. with the
message. Someone there is trying to cover
their delinquency in passing it further. I put up
a very able defense and insist upon showing
that according to my notation of time I went to
bed there is a discrepancy of half an hour in
my schedule and theirs. Lt. will try to have my
punishment rescinded and in the meantime I
will report to the work battalion as a matter of
form. I am not told where or to whom. Men all
side with me when I tell them what happened.
Their experience is similar to mine when on
mission to Hdqrs., always finding Sgt. Nichols
asleep on arrival. Tell Lt. that and other
evidences of importance in our case against
the lying highbrows at Batt. Hdqrs. Lt. decides
that every message delivered to Hdqrs. must
be signed and receipted for. A good idea.
Write after holding an indignation meeting
until 10:30. To bed. Sleep well.