Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 4 July 1918.


Thu. Jul. 4, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
Reports of the fray begin to arrive. Lts. wish
to go out to get particulars and take check and
hearten boys. Capt. remains. Tells the men he
would have given all the fortunes in the world
to have been with the boys in the first line.
Cook comes back shortly with a fishy story
about why he did not go out. I believe he
could not find his way, and will wait until it
grows light to go out. In the meantime post-
mortems and more wishes that they were
permitted to have been in the fray. Self praise
for coolness displayed - in a dugout. Captain
comes, pleased with performance of his men,
and tells how he awakened the town to be
prepared in case of gas. It grows light and
officers leave to inspect the men, Perch myself
202on bed and listen to young Kenny explain how
he won the battle. Undoubtedly the bravest lad
of all the runners, but has too much to say.
Talk of gas, and it develops that there is not a
single extra mask to be had. What if Stringer
had run into gas and there was no mask for
him? Fall asleep with Cpl. Hessler on bed
beside me, about 3:30. Awake at 5 to find
Capt. Sturgis is my bedfellow. Lt. McDougall
back. Elated with performance of boys. Him I
admire. So do the other men. I go upstairs,
while I wait for the report to take to
Intelligence. Del Duca and others in group
talking about their performance and
experiences of the night. Del's squad of
Italians are the best fighters in the company.
"Grease Balls", who have redeemed
themselves. Goldberg back after being out in a
shell hole all night. Devlin's squad not yet
accounted for. No one wants to sleep. All look
fresh, Trophies of fray, a few German
grenades. One of our rifles is split down entire
length of barrel. It had been hit by a missile
around seven. It did not explode while firing.
A German sniper's armored breastplate, with
bullet hole where collar bone would be, is on
exhibition. Machine gun ammunition has been
exhausted. Every man threw at least 20 bombs
on an average. Now all is quiet except for
machine gun from Young's sector, where they
are still working. Suggest that report be made
out for us to take back. Must wait for Cook or
Captain. Cook comes, writes a brief report of
victorious engagements, giving it to Gillece,
ignoring me as usual. Go back to town. Ask
McDougall for any orders. He would like to
see report. I call for Gillece, who is well under
way by now, to come back. He does not hear
me. Run through boyau quite a distance to
catch up with him. Bring back and show report
to McDougall, who is displeased with it. Not
comprehensive enough. He and Cook make
out another. Back to town with it, starting at
5:30. Should be in ........ 5:48. Gillece worried.
I reason with him, it is not our fault. Hurry
going through boyau with hand on pistol,
ready for instant use if intercepted. Much
damage done to unshored cups and CT along
the line of the boyau. No incident on way.
Handed report to Lt. Griffiths 6:00. Scolded
for being late. Tell him what I know about the
battle. His men were up but were not sent out.
He and Sgt. went to town OP to observe
progress. Difficulty in finding place in the
dark. No use going to bed until after breakfast.
I am starving. To kitchen, where I must fry a
few pieces of bacon and with bread make a
sandwich to appease hunger, while I tell cooks
and S C men of my experiences. Breakfast
ready now. Bacon, potatoes, bread, coffee. Say
it is my opinion that I will go to bed. Sgt., who
has just come in to breakfast, asks if I would
not like to take a message to Batt. Hdqrs.
before I go to sleep. Yes, of course I will. Go
upstairs at once. Ask boys if there is anything
they would like from the YMCA. Get a
commission to get chocolate and matches. Get
the wheel. Ask Lt. if he needs anything. He
does not, so I go off at once. Get to Hdqrs.
Talk to Atha for a few minutes. No one to be
seen in the office. See Sgt. Fisher through an
open door, call him. Sgt. Major comes out,
takes it and gives it to Nichols, who is still
asleep. Look for letters I had intended to mail.
Find I have forgotten them. Ask if anything is
going back. A message for E. I sign for it. Go
to YMCA. It is closed. Back to quarters.
Major on horseback passes me on road. Walk
up hills too steep for riding. In quarters, read,
go to sleep at 8:00. Awake at 12:00 for dinner.
Steak, potato, tomato sauce, macaroni, coffee,
bread. Write a letter to Mama, Mr. Reilly, Mr.
Medoli. Kidded considerably for writing so
much. Supper, Beef stew, toast, coffee. Write
again until 7:10. Sgt. picks a detail of men to
go with him and Lt. on an ambush patrol.
They leave behind, bayonet, canteen and steel
helmet, arm themselves with bombs, rifle and
203pistol, and leave before dark. I am gas guard
from 2 to 4. Wooster comes with a message
from Batt. Hdqrs. for Lt. No one knows where
he has gone. Conway goes to Co. Hdqrs. to
find out where he is, then Gillece and Ward go
out to look for him. Of course they cannot find
him. He has already gone out on No Man's
land. Wooster stays for a while and reports
back to Batt. Hdqrs. During the night another
message comes for the Lt. It is about report
being late this morning. Major wants to know
why. Sleep until 2. Himpler wakes me with a
lot of fuss and feathers at 1:40. I protest and
get up at 1:50. Go down with stool, where it is
dark and quiet. I am cold, without sweater,
which I have loaned to Black. I cough
considerably. Halt a few men from F, who
have relieved E Co., which went back to ........
for a rest of a few days. Patrol comes back at
2:30, having done nothing and encountered no
one. Some of the men went to sleep in No
Man’s Land. Grows light. Bethink myself of
going to railway station at end of street, quite
near, to see what it is like. Been here so long
and never thought of going north of our
quarters. Look for something to eat in kitchen.
Find dried apples. Machine gun firing and
little shelling in sector to our left ceases at
daybreak. Airplanes have been active over
sector to ascertain extent of damage done
during the night. They are shelled heavily
from both sides. Shelling during day not very
active. None in or near town. Devlin's squad
and all others accounted for. After supper I go
to Company Hdqrs. to get a telegram, which I
have been told is there for me. I expect it is a
cablegram of congratulations on my wedding
anniversary. So it proved. I came near not
getting it. Haight tells me it is packed up. I
say, packed up or not, I must have them. He
sees I am in earnest, promises to get it for me.
It is only a little suitcase that must be opened.
He is the laziest man in the company. Captain
is in very good humour. He again asks me
what I hear from home. Fine, I say. To myself
I say, I hope so always. Please God.