Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 24 April 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Wednesday April 24, 1918
Weather: Damp, Cold
Health: Slight headache and footsore
Up at 6:00. Very sore feet. Bathe them and
change socks. Wash. Go up for reveille. Have
a half hour till breakfast. Look about. There
are pigs, chickens, horses, pigeons, cows, all
running about at once. There are no young
men in town. Lots of children and old folks
who go to work in the fields. An aged cure and
an old assistant. A church and a graveyard a
hundred years old. A school in which our
headquarters are established. Windmills
furnish power. Two dozen or so houses of
which 10 are estaminets. A store which sells
canned goods and chocolate. Nothing much to
be bought from farmers except eggs and milk.
Everything else is strictly rationed. Wine and
beer, of course, are plentiful. English soldiers
are about, loafing but not a French Poilu in
sight. Cannon booming in the distance. Noise
so loud that the reverberation can be heard like
the roll of thunder and the earth rocks.
Aeroplanes are going up. We all slept well and
refreshed ourselves with a bath under the old
pump in the field. Breakfast. Beef stew,
burned, bread, marmalade, coffee. The kitchen
is moved to a more convenient spot, further
still from us. I confess I am hungry. Boys
immediately besiege Madame for eggs and
mi1k. Eggs are 6¢, milk 3¢ our money. I have
an opportunity to write. Start a letter to Leah.
Walk through fields with Reilly. Look forward
to a good rest and vacation. Consternation and
cursing when order comes to fall out for drill
formation. Object is to keep us from stiffening
up entirely. I would rather rest but see justice
of officers decision to drill us. My left foot
hurts like the devil. We get a few lessons in
how to handle our new rifle. Dismissed before
mess which gives me time to shave. Dinner
very late. Stew, bread and coffee. Mostly fat.
Eat it all. I am hungry enough to eat leather. A
scramble for food. Given an hour's rest, which
I take up with writing. Our barracks bags have
come up. Mine has been found in H company's
quarters. It is in good condition. Some men's
bags have either been wet or chewed by rats.
Detailed to do a little fatigue job to get some
scrap sheet iron from salvage warden. Go to
village to buy some chocolate and sardines.
Prices are ruinous. Estaminets are all filled
with both English and American soldiers 
drinking. Boys are spending their money
royally, forcing up price of liquors.
Englishmen are playing string instruments in
one place where they pass around hat to get
enough for a few drinks. Back to quarters to
write. I seat myself in a covered cart in the
yard, where undisturbed, I can arouse myself
to thought inspired by the melodious song of
the birds. Supper. Cheese, jam, bread, coffee.
It is almost dark before supper is served. I
have helped bring in supplies from stores
carrying a load of bread. Meet R..... who
insists on taking a loaf. I become a partner to
the crime, remembering I have sardines. An
onion is stolen by Callahan, a bottle of
champagne is brought by Reilly. We repair to
quarters and by the light of a stolen candle we
have a second repast which is more to our
liking than the first one. Not very much
enchanted with the taste of champagne. Take a
little of it. Offer to pay my share of cost. I
must write to Leah. I break up party which
was held behind woodshed. Go to bed after
writing only a few lines because I am hot from
the wine I drank. A fight starts among men
over candles. Corporal refuses to put his out.
Boys are afraid light will be seen by
aeroplanes. A noise in the courtyard just then
frightens us all and helps convince the
corporal of the necessity of putting out light. It
is only a dog barking at one of our boys who
comes in late, drunk and singing. Guns have
been keeping up a terrible concentrated fire
since sunset. The noise is constant and as near
as I can judge, the firing is from our lines. It is
all our way at any rate. I ponder a long time
about the reason for it all and cannot find any.
Nothing but destruction, killing of men who
can never be replaced. People here have
courage, become accustomed to cannonading.
They seem to think nothing of it judging from
manner in which they go about their business.
Make an attempt to speak French with the
women of the house. I really thought that I
could carry on a conversation in French. That
belief lasted only two or three minutes. My
delusion is dispelled. I wish that I had brought
with me a French dictionary.