Author: Thomas James Richards.
Date: 8th March 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

 March 8th.    Thursday. Morning Parade:--Bayonet fighting by Serg. Smith. The instruction was laid out over a course; firstly in parties ^lines of 10 we jumped into a fairly deep trench, got out over the top on command and charged the bags of straw, No. 1 lying on the ground,  
- 10 -  withdraw and charge, No. 2, 1½ yds. away suspended, withdraw and jab the high bag representing the throat, pass on for 20 yds., jump into a shallow trench stab a bag on the parapet and race on 5 yards and rest. This was strenuous work but good exercise. I am very crud at bayonet work; but after having my right shoulder damaged yesterday I was almost lose to-day. There followed squad drill with arms and a discourse on musketry. Afternoon:--Short lecture on Map Reading by Major Harris: Followed by each officer enlarging a section of regulation map. This is rather pleasant and valuable practice. Half an hour on musketry followed; with "standing load" and target pointing. I am awfully backward here, but to improve myself I cannot obtain the book "Musketry No. 1" to help me along. The evening lecture by a R.F.C. Officer on "AEROPLANE CONTACT." The only machines doing contact work for the Anzac Corps are monoplanes. So that when you notice one hovering about during an attack or shortly afterwards it is looking for information 
to take back to Corp Hdqs. It is easily distinguished by a broard black band on each of the wings and tags flying out behind from the wi ngs. Its duty at all times is to patrol around the front lines of both sides and pick up any information to take back to Hdqs. In an attack it accquaints Hdqs, as to the new position our troops have taken up and also notes the strength of the German resistance. During the first two hours of an attack two machines are on duty. Afterward two hours there is only one. There are three methods by which the infantry can communicate with the contact plane. 1st.   Flares (Red prefered) 2nd. Ground signaling sheet 3rd.  Signaling lamp The most successful method is the first one. Flares should be lit in groups of three one yard away from each other and 50 yards between groups. A succession of A s. from the horn of the contact machine means that flares are urgently wanted. Should the position arise in which there are neither flares or ground signaling sheet to be - 11 - got it is advisable to make as much movement in the trench as possible.  Such as waving hats and shaking water proof sheets in the bottom of trench or shell hole. It is often arranged that attacking troops will light flares at a certain hour. But should this specificed time arrive and there is not aeroplane in sight on no account light the flares. Even if the machine is there dont light up until the machine calls for them as he may not be in a position to see just then. Flares are oftimes damp and will not light with the striker; if this happen just loosen the end a little and use a match to set it burning. When using the signaling sheet never attempt more than 6 words per minute making full dots and long dashes. Each letter will be acknowledged when read by a blast of the horn. Question asked. There are no monoplanes in use about the Somme but our contact aeroplanes. The German do not use monoplanes!! Wireless messages are sent from the plane but not received!! Photographs are usually taken at an height of from 7,000 to 12,000 feet. Enough of the country is then taken in to allow proper identification of the locality. The best cameras in the service are made with the lenses taken from German aeroplanes!! Big gun flashes are plainly seen!! Shells are bursting very close when they can be heard from the machine!! The Germans dont use shrapnel at planes!! The clock system of directing gun fire is used and is both clear and affective. The target is taken as the centre of the clock, whether visiable or not to the artillery, the 12 hour and 6 hour figure representing due North and South. for example:--
Diagram- see original document The centre is the mark each of the circles represent 10 yards and are know by the fixed letters. If a shot land at the cross (x) the airman wires to the gun 10.A. only and they know just how to range the next. But should it land 10 yds. away to the right it would sent in as "2.Y." This clock system is also used by Hdqs. Bn. when calling for a barrage on a certain place in the line. - 12 - The more important parts of a Rifle. Backsight bed                                     Bolt head            "             "        ramp                         "          "    tenon
Bolt rib                                                     "          "   spring Extractor seating                                  Bolt head hook Bolt lug                                                   Striker Tongue of cocking piece                   Cocking piece Retaining catch                                    Stricker collar Resistance shoulder                            Safety catch Cut off slot                                              Ejector Body socket                                           Sear    "         "      boss                                    Trigger Lever bolt breech                                 Magazine Lug seating Long cam groove Short   "         " 