Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 28 January 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Monday Jan. 28, 1918
Weather: cold, snowing Health: good
Lt. Cook announces no military or fatigue duty for 3rd platoon for week.
Up at 6:00. On guard so do not fall out for Reveille. Shave, wash, make bed. Breakfast, hash, pettijohns, coffee. I was set in my mind that I would go out for review to decide best platoon in 3 battalions. In spite of little sleep I felt that I would do good work. To my great chagrin, Childs informs me that I will have to stay on guard in latrine all day. Were I a girl, I would have cried. I was so angry that I had to restrain myself to have it out with Curley, who I know was to blame. I complained, futile. I go on, sore at heart pride greatly hurt, sulking, disgusted. Drill call sounds. I look out of the window to see boys drilling in the snow. My platoon performing in great shape. They maneuver in firebreak until it is time to be reviewed by Colonel who is to decide who drills on Hippodrome Stage. About 11:30 I hear a great shout. I knew our boys had won. I was like a caged lion. Only comfort was a stolen smoke. After boys are dismissed they parade around regimental area with brooms and shovels, Capt. and Major Budd leading. Mess is ready. No relief for me until after 1. Dinner, pork and beans, prunes, coffee. Lieut. Cook wishes to make a speech of praise to boys so I must interrupt dinner. Continue eating standing up. No appetite. Back to latrine at 2 and stay until 4:30. So tired that if I sit down I doze off. Almost asleep standing. Take a nap after relieved. Supper, roast beef, potato, coffee. Write a very sad toned letter to Leah. To YMCA auditorium for show and entertainment that Capt. McMurtry is giving for the entire 2nd Battalion. This does not allow me opportunity to telephone Leah as I promised. 308th Band there. All officers. Co. E. gets choice seats. A new arrival in camp gives us a surprise. Ukelele Pat. Long dances remarkably with a partner. My spirits are raised. Boxing bouts, a free for all fight. Our own boys in the ring for three bouts. Refreshments. Ice cream, cake and cider. To post office with Sam. Back to barracks to finish Leah’s letter and write. To bed at 11. Pimpl tells me my appeal papers are back again. Say a prayer for a favorable decision. Sleep well. Bongartz back again with us after three weeks in hospital.
