Author: Ernest L Muzzall

Date: 18 September 1918

Text:

On September 18, I was called into the company office by the first sergeant
of the permanent training cadre and, to my astonishment, was told that as of that
moment I was first sergeant of VRU #2 and would have a small desk next to the
captain’s office. My job just then was to assist in getting the company ready to
leave for France. He then handed me the official warrant signed by Colonel
Griffen, commander of the Lee VT Camp. I would have been happy with a
sergeant’s rating but the assignment to be the chief non-com was more
responsibility than I wanted since I was the youngest of the entire company except
one. Besides that we were beginning to have troubles.

About the first of September the influenza hit us. It was a devastating thing
and we were instantly put under strict quarantine. No passes, no unnecessary
moving around from one part of the camp to another, and no evening entertainment
of any kind. Within three days the base hospital was full and over-flowing. One
of our four two-story barracks was set aside for the sick and orderlies appointed to
care for them. Men were dying by the hundreds over the camp. We lost about
two-thirds of our men to the sick list and more than half of the officers. Since the
company was made up of 200 enlisted men and 13 officers this was quite a blow.
For some reason I did not get the “flu” at any time.
It was a macabre situation. Men would go out to drill apparently feeling
well only to collapse a little later and have to be hospitalized or put to bed.
Ambulances would drive around and around trying to find hospital spaces for their
very sick passengers. Within ten days so many men had died that the caskets had
accumulated at the railway station, located across the drill field from our company, so rapidly that they had to be stacked several high. The situation seemed not ready
to get any better.
Apparently the camp commanders thought that nothing should be permitted
to interfere with the smooth flow of men overseas so the required number of
companies for the next shipment were named and their vacancies filled with men
from other companies likewise shorthanded. This involved a great number of
transfers and an enormous amount of paperwork. The company clerk was sent to
the hospital at this critical time leaving us without anyone who could do clerical
work. The monthly reports were just completed fortunately when we received
orders to make up our passenger lists in 13 (why 13 so often?) copies. This I had
to do myself although no typist. It was a long, tedious and difficult job most of
which I did at night after other duties were finished. All this time we were plagued
with men getting sick and necessitating changes on our records.