Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 19 July 1918.

Nationality: Australian

Text:


Fri. Jul. 19, 1918
Weather: Fair, Hot
Health: Fair
1st Batt. - no casualties
Up at 7:00. Awakened by Corp. McGovern
who wants us to report to officers' mess. For a
moment I think the scandal I am involved in
has been straightened out, but it only proves
that he has no orders as to my day's work,
other than what I have been doing. I do as he
bids, making no attempt to argue about it.
Report to the kitchen. Everything is already
cleaned up though it is only 7:30. Get my
breakfast there. Bacon and potatoes. My mind
is much easier over the new state of affairs this
morning. I am not worried and go about
inquiring how Regt. Hdqrs. knows that I had
an easy job and just what it was. I find that
Ludwig, Co L clerk, had been in the habit of
filling out a daily report in which my name
was mentioned as being at the officers' mess. I
believe that was questioned, since officers'
mess could get along without extra men. I
wash and do a few chores, sweeping up,
carrying wood, etc., after which Corp.
McGovern decides that it is best not to have
me in the kitchen. He tells me to fall in with
the others and report up the hill. There will not
be much work to do, I am assured. We take
our time getting there and find a tree trunk to
sit on, while on the way. Next, we go farther
up hill to where the platoons are camped in the
wood and there get to work, digging a latrine.
It is easy work. There are 4 of us. 2 work at a
time, 1 loosens earth with a pick, one shovels
out loose dirt. In that manner each man works
about 15 minutes of each hour. But in spite of
the fact that it is not so bad as I thought, this is
no business and no place for Leah's husband
and Cecilie's papa. One aeroplane up over us
in wood. One tree, 2 1/2 feet thick, split 15
feet above the ground by a shell, cut off
completely by a great force. At eleven o'clock,
we decide that the latrine is finished and make
our way back home by the open road and in
close formation in full view of observation
balloon. A grave error. Rest in a round house
dugout, probably of German construction. I try
to write a letter but it will not work. There
isn’t a thought in my head. I am right to refuse
to be in the company of these men.
Hairbrained, thoughtless, silly laughter. No
wonder I cannot think. At 11:30, we are on our
way back. Go direct to quarters. When I arrive
upstairs, I notice that the flowers which I have
pressed and been saving to send to Leah are on
the floor, as if my personal belongings have
been trifled with and gone through. I suspect
Smith of the trick, but say nothing. I will
watch. Eat my mess. Steak, lots of peas, bread,
coffee. Corporal tells us to report to Rgtl.
Hdqrs. at 3:30, with packs. I am interested in
the order, chiefly because I see an afternoon
off. I write a letter to Mama. The boys make
their packs. I do not. Orders come to remain
where we are. No packs will be taken. Start a
letter to Leah. Aeroplane is up, a Boche, not
far away. A gun opens up almost directly
behind us, which we mistake for shelling from
Fritz. At the first shot, I spring up, see that I
have my writing and all my pictures, gas mask
and helmet and make for the dugout. Outside I
discover my mistake and go right back again
for I have no time to lose. One soon tires of
his diversion. At 3:30, we prepare to assemble.
McGovern meets us and arranges us in
formation to take us up to be turned over. We
have appeared without belts and rifles and are
sent back to get same. In making the change, I
forget my gas mask, a loss I am not aware of
until I am halfway to quarters. No men we are,
and the corporal takes us through the streets in
full view of the enemy's observation balloon,
in addition to the mistake he makes,
permitting us to go about unarmed. He expects
229to meet the general and sure enough he does.
We are called to attention as we are marched
up the road to headquarters. General stops us
and demands an explanation from the
corporal. He has his orders from the Capt. and
as a final result, by six o'clock, we hear the
Captain has been relieved of his command, the
Corporal punished. We fall out in the road and
for a whole hour we wait for Capt. of B Co. to
turn up to take us over. He does not come.
Finally, we are sent back to return at 7. I go
first in staggered formation. I hurry. So far I
have been exceedingly fortunate. Get back
after having been out for 1 hour and 15
minutes without a gas mask in very dangerous
country. A fine way of safeguarding Leah's
and Cecilie's bread earner. I am most ashamed
of my neglect. I made plans to get into the tall
tree, that had a ladder against its boughs, in
case of a gas attack. I would have been safe if
I could get there. Get my mess kit and prepare
to go to supper, when Bernard tells me I will
be out of luck if I go to kitchen. There is no
more left he tells me. I do not care. There is
bread downstairs and that will do me. He has
jam and we find a can of hash out of which we
make our supper. Artillery shakes us up a bit
while we eat. An argument about the location.
I am getting anxious to know what will be
done with me. Write until seven o'clock. Men
who play the piano very well come to visit and
entertain. The table is cleared and taken
outside the hall, so there is room for dancing.
Quite a parlor these men have fixed up for
themselves. Lounges, upholstered cushion
armchairs, piano, etc., pictures on the wall, the
best beds in the town, cooking utensils and
stove. A home. Man plays ragtime music
wonderfully well, sings some of his own
compositions. Another does likewise. An
exceptional pair. Oh how I love to sit upstairs
to listen so that I can imagine I am back in
New York at someone's house where there is
entertainment. I wonder how it is that life in
the trenches does not rob men of both the
desire and the ability to play. Ponder on the
effect that spirit, which cannot be subdued, has
upon men who are fighting. Think they are
leaders without a peer. They can make an
army sing itself to victory. I write upstairs
until it is too dark to see. Go downstairs in
parlor, a place I would have avoided
ordinarily, but since I want to finish my letter
to Leah, I must give up my preference to
necessity. There is a good deal of noise. The
players of course, have left, to go back with
their companies. The relief is beginning to
come in. At ten, Corp. McGovern brings a
great big Simon Legree and a new corporal to
whom we must bow for the term of their stay.
The information is given us that we must get
up at 4 o'clock in the morning. We will do the
work done by ration details of other
companies. Lots of thinking and suggestions
for getting out of it, none of which proves of
any value. Write till 11 o'clock. Boys are
making doughnuts and coffee. I have some
before I go to bed. Get into bed and fall asleep
quickly. About 2 o'clock, for some reason, my
bed collapses, making quite a little noise. I am
not in the least frightened. It strikes me as
funny knowing guard who is awake would be
frightened because it comes from upstairs.
Sure enough, they came up with loaded guns
and rifles while I am fixing it. Sleep well.