Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 28 April 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Sunday April 28, 1918
Weather: Damp, Chill
Health: Good
Up at 7:00. Very reluctantly. Big guns have
disturbed my rest. It is raining. Barn is damp,
too. Rain leaks in through gaps in the roof. Go
up for breakfast, attired in slickers. Stand in
line in pouring rain. Cap sheds rain. Drop
from it falls down my neck. Cap without a
brim is useless in wet weather. Get to gate.
Food runs out. Must wait until fresh supply
comes up. It rains harder than ever now.
Canned salmon, butter, bread, coffee, to which
I add an egg which I saved from yesterday.
Bring mess back to barn to keep out of wet.
Walk which I had planned to take is
impossible. Roads are all mud. I remain in
billet. Sit around chatting with men for half an
hour. Some go to the ancient church to attend
services. Those that remain lie down for a nap.
I get back in my corner, cover myself with a
blanket and take a nap. Awakened by Jones.
He and I must each carry a barrack bag to
orderly room for sergeants who are being sent
to schools to receive instruction in British
methods. Signaling, infantry drill, grenade
throwing, machine gun fire. Two of our
lieutenants go forward for study and
observation. No sooner do we arrive at orderly
room with bags when first sergeant informs us
that no barracks bags can be taken along. We
are to tell sergeants of that fact and go back
with bags. I fill my pipe first and take my time
about returning. Get a cup of hot coffee in the
kitchen of the farmhouse as my reward. Not a
tidy place. A queer stove of sheet iron which
burns soft coal. Everything smells of and is
full of soot. It has stopped raining, turned to
fine drizzle. Sit in straw and take advantage of
quiet to write. Time for dinner comes before I
am aware of it. Boiled beef, potatoes, soup.
Arrangements have been made to censor and
post letters for us. They must first be signed
by our officer, then go on to base censor. Back
again to write a letter to Leah. Sit outside
under woodshed. Letter I wrote last week I
decide to tear up. It is too intimate a letter to
be put through from our orderly room. Supper.
Bully beef, cheese, bread, coffee. Continue
writing until dark. Go to bed by candlelight.
One of boys has a cake which he divides up
among boys. Cake is a luxury which we have
not had since leaving camp. I have not been
out on roads except to go to mess, all day. The
clamor of battle has been terrific all day long.
Not a moment's cessation. The ground
trembles as if in an earthquake. Constant
rumbling as of thunder all day long,
occasionally an extraordinarily loud clap as if
a nearby town were being shelled. While I
write the bombardment is so intense that my
nerves are affected by it. I feel as though I
would really like a drink of alcoholic liquor to
steady them. Never before have I felt the need
for stimulant. I wonder how men actually
under fire can live amid the bursting shells and
booming cannon. How can they live when in
addition to the hardships of trench life, diet,
lack of sleep, hunger, their nerves are wracked 
by that stupendous noise. Madam is worried.
She walks about all day with tears almost
welling out of her eyes, raising her hands in
horror and telling us of her fears in language
we cannot understand. Activity in the air is
curtailed. A few planes sighted flying very
low. After some good-natured chaffing while
under the covers, I fall asleep to be awakened
at 10:30. The ground is actually trembling. My
ears being close to the earth, the rumble is
more distinct than under ordinary
circumstances. I cannot fall asleep again for a
long time. Firing at its greatest intensity seems
to come from German lines.