Author: Thomas James Richards.
Date: 12th November 1916.
Nationality: Australian.

November 12th      Sunday Sunday again, but as far as we here are concerned  it might be any day at all. There has been not slightest indication of the day. Just as well too, as we don't wish to have such days as these counted out and served up to us one at  a time. Oh no, better by far to let them go uncounted even if not entirely forgotten. It has been a dull day and the night also is dull with a think moist fog hanging heavily, but it it not cold. - 7 - There have been no showers of rain now for four whole days. The roads are dry in patches, and then frightly heavy and sticky. In and around the transport lines it is difficult to draw one's feet out of the gluey mud. I hope it will continue dry for a week so as to clean the front trenches out. It is disheartening to think that two hours' rain will make those trenches almost as horrid as ever again. Our men, also the Germans, in moving about from trench to trench or communication way, invariably choose to do so over the top, exposed to snipers, rather than wade through the 2 feet and even 3 feet of slimy water. A very large number of our men are "knocked" this way. It seems that the trenches are quite "safe" providing fellows do not recklessly expose themselves. The greatest danger seems to be in parties being relieved and passing to and from the front line to the back. To-night we got a large number of men from the Ath Division who were going up to the line for the first time. The travelling ways seem to be picked out during the day time and at dusk bombarded at short intervals for a few hours. There has not been the same congestion of traffic in Longueval for days and judging by the stocks of projectiles waiting at the great number of 8 or 9 inch guns scattered haphazardly about there is going to be something doing ere long. These distributed piles standing out unprotected in the open account for the easing of the heavy motor traffic. These guns are not "dug in", they stand up clear and strong, but over the top is a screen of wire netting with bits of bag screwed in here and there. I notice also that wire netting screens are being used instead of hessin to cover from German view, roads and travelling ways. It does not look at all effective from down here and near to them, but from an aeroplane or observation balloon this flimsy means -8 - of covering up must be very effective on results achieved. Harry Dingle tells me that he saw a German 77 fire seven shots at one man and follow him along for 300 yards eventually "knocking" him. The man was Dr. Little, 7th Battalion. Another unique experience of his was to have machine guns turned on to himself and party when they were building a dugout, from a Taub machine flying overhead during the middle of a clear sunny day. The German airmen are very daring indeed. At night on the 7th or 8th November they destroyed a very large pile of French ammunition destined for the Poronne bombardment. Later they dropped bombs on a hospital and rest station 4 miles back. One bomb landed on a large tent and killed 6 and wounded 20 ; all Australians too.