Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 22 May 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 


Wed. May 22, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
Up at 6:00. Reveille. Gaps in the line. Many
heads too big to carry. Breakfast by a new
system. Each platoon draws rations to be
distributed by Sgts. Dry rations for all day,
wet as they are cooked. This morning, rice,
bread, coffee. The men will drill for an hour,
then go for a bath. At 7:30, we meet and are
given instructions to pack. Full equipment.
Mess Sgt. refuses to give us rations. We report
at meeting place. Hot as blazes. Limbers to
carry extra blanket rolls and rations late in
arriving. Our own Lt. induces Sgt. to give us
some tea, tack, cheese and bully. Difficulty in
obtaining water. The carts are empty and the
supply they are just putting in has not yet been
chlorinated. First aid man detailed to march
with us induces water cart man to give us a
pinch of brine to put into our bottles. Gillece
has a bad hangover from last night. He fills his
canteen with red wine. I am offered some,
represented as fresh water. One mouthful is all
I want. Two hours are consumed in arranging
details and prevailing upon supply men to give
us what we need. Off without blouses, two
limbers trailing behind, at 11. An easy pace,
but in the hot sun I perspire, so that sweat
streams off my nose and gets into my eyes.
Pack does not bother me much. Feet are in
good condition. After an hour, 2 men, Gillece
and Conway, feel the effects of yesterday's
carousel. Fortunately, we are at our first
resting place. The horses are fed. We fall out
for more than an hour. Eat very little. Only a
little bread, cheese and jam. A cemetery across
the road from us. Only a few graves, one a
pvt., who died on Christmas Day. Take a
smoke and a nap. Off again for 50 minutes.
Getting nearer to the guns. Our new home in
sight. Men in camps about are on a battle
discipline basis. Lines of communication and
supply show the enormity of modern warfare.
Halted while Lt. explains what we came here
for and shows us area to be occupied by
battalion when they come up. We must note
position carefully, guide others later. Home
not what I expected as yet. First of all we see a
real trench. Beyond this is another. Between
these, we will pitch our tents, cut wires to get
in. Wait for wagons to come up, after we rid
ourselves of pack and equipment. Pass supply
and extra clothes to men on other side of
trench and then distribute everything to owners. Pair off tenting. Gillece falls to my lot
as mate. He is a fine fellow, but not desirable
today. Arrange our things in tent. Build a
narrow ditch for drainage around our new
home. Get wood for a fire, make a fireplace,
dig a latrine. Camouflage tents and a shelter
for supplies made from branches. Walk to
main camp, a quarter mile, to wash and get
water for coffee and to fill our bottles.
Unexpectedly British have rations for us, too.
A cook volunteers. He makes excellent coffee
and a surprise dish with bully beef. Hashes it
and fixes it with bacon, bread. Take off my
shoes and socks to cool feet. I write till 8:30.
Guard posted. Corp. and Sgt. will take their
turn too. Lt. gathers us about him. Cautions us
to wear respirators at all times and in event of
attack to give alarm. To bed at 10:00. Too
much noise to sleep. Gillece snores. Fritz is
very active. Artillery is our next door neighbor
now. Air skirmishes are frequent. One right
over us at 8, and another at 1 o'c1ock.
Machine guns and shells work so close to us,
they can be distinctly heard to whistle a
greeting to us. Shells go by us with a
prolonged swish, until we can see them burst
with a flash of fire in the distance. There is
very little danger of an enemy attack in this
area, except an occasional gas shell. It is not
hidden from us that we are from now on
responsible for a sector of the battle front,
which we will defend in the event of a general
retreat to our point. It no longer occurs to me
to liken battle at night to a distant Fourth of
July celebration. There are two of our men in
billets about, who came in during the day.
They have news that Al Ferguson died in base
hospital and has already been buried. This is
told to us at sundown. I cannot believe it.
Interrupt Lt. with my exclamation of surprise.
I mourn his loss. A sunny spirit. During the
night the guard catches two porcupines, taking
them prisoner via an old tin can. Note a large
cemetery and feel less affected than when I
first saw one on way to ........ . Large number
of men in quartermaster service seen, on road,
and lorries. Softens my opinion of struggle
somewhat. At least some will go back
unharmed. Infantry men tell stories of
hardship only.