Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 30 July 1918.

Nationality: Australian

Text: 


Tue. Jul. 30, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
Up at 7:30. Breakfast. Rlce with apricots,
bread and Karo, coffee. Apologies by Kastner,
F Co. Mess Sergeant for not being able to give
me any breakfast and then he gives me as
much as I want. The barrage, which started
last night, is still going, apparently without
having let up at all. I am anxious to know what
the outcome of the fray is and also what
organization is taking part in it. I inquire of the
Sgt. if there are any formations for the day.
None that he knows of until he inquires of the
Lieutenant. Out of curiosity, I look at my
shirts. In my OD I find a few cooties and also
249in my undershirt. What I cannot understand is
how they can breed so quickly in clothes that
have been deloused by the disinfecting
process. It must be the billets that are at fault.
They are four or more years old and have
probably never been cleaned, or policed
properly. The French are not for such things.
Search my blankets but in them I can find no
trace of lice. Hang them outside to air. Clean
out the dust and straw from my bunk and
shake shelter tent halves well. The Sergeant
has Corp. Thurn, Ellenbogen and two others
go out with him and the Lieutenant to show
the men of 145th, who relieve us, the positions
of posts and limits of sector. All those men,
who were not to delousing station yesterday,
go to-day. They are given the password but are
cautioned not to stay away "too long". They
are expected back after mess. The reason is
that at any moment we may get an order to
pack up and move. The crop of rumors in
regard to our destination is not very abundant
this morning. No one has any brilliant ideas.
Nothing original. Get in to my bunk to write.
It is hard. Move about in an attempt to find
comfort. Try lying down, sit up, move to this
place and that. So I accomplish very little up
to dinner time. The best rumor of the day is a
rumor that we have a good dinner. It is true.
We have potato, meatballs, bread, coffee. The
meatballs are plentiful. I get another without
having to resort to a ruse. The other fellows
have more than they can eat, some of them
having gone up to the mess shack three times.
After dinner there is no formation and the
afternoon we have to ourselves. I see a
newspaper for the first time in weeks and learn
of the death of John Purroy Mitchell, our
former Mayor. It surprises me more than
shocks me. I have so far permitted myself to
get out of touch with the world, so that I know
of nothing that is going on. All the news I get
is hearsay news from the other boys. In the
same manner I receive news of the death of
the Roosevelt boys in an aeroplane accident. I
am growing tired of this place for that reason.
We see too little and get too little from the
outer world. Write a letter to Abe Gold
outside. Go inside to write to Mike, one to
Reggie and Mende, one to Leah. The boys
who have been to the delousing station come
back with new clothes. Even their outer
garments have been sterilized. They have had
a wonderful dinner with E Company,
something that could never happen here. Their
section party of 12 were fed with steak,
potatoes, soup, bread, sliced tomatoes, lettuce
salad. I can hardly believe that such a thing is
possible in the army, but all the boys vouch
for the truth of what they say was on their
menu. Our sergeant has told F Co. kitchen
earlier in the morning that twelve of his men
will come in for dinner a little late and asked
him to save mess. When the boys come in they
are told that mess is waiting for them. They
are not sure whether they are able to eat
another meal but they will try. Strange to say,
the mess sergeant is generous with them and
offers them as many as 4 or 5 meatballs. They
refuse to take them, which must be as much of
a surprise to the sergeant. A big day of eats for
Black who is always hungry. Nothing else of
interest occurs during the afternoon. It is quiet.
The officers are busy going over maps and
orders with their successors. Men from the
companies are all but on detail, fixing roads or
digging trenches. Finish all my letters before
supper time, except the one for Leah. I am
tired. Take a half hour's nap and then have
supper. Stew, bread, coffee. The mess sergeant
is watching the line. He has discovered that
some "wise guys" have put one over on him.
He is hoppin' mad. He threatens to report those
who beat him out of a few meatballs, which he
might have thrown away. Surprised to find no
one whom he recognizes. After supper sit on a
box to finish Leah's letter. There is Streetor
and another who are writing, too, and want me
250to prompt them in spelling. I help them a lot.
Many easy words cannot be spelled by them.
Growing dark. Write in my bunk by
candlelight. Everybody is in good humour to-
night in spite of the fact that Wade, the
ringleader, has not had much to drink. The
boys in the lower bunk complain about my
light. I pay no attention to them. Protest that in
every other billet there are lights lit. There is a
little surprise in store for us to-night. A Boche
plane, perhaps more than one is up over us.
Order for lights out in our billet is
immediately obeyed. I lie on my back,
anxiously wondering what will happen. We
are afraid that plane will drop bombs, because
there are so many lights in the woods. Plane
circles about for more than 15 minutes and
nothing is done to drive him away. Not a gun
is fired at him. No planes of our own are up.
The nearest aviation field is 38 kilos away and
it is probably difficult to send a machine or
two up on short notice. There is excitement
when the first few shots from an anti-aircraft
gun are fired. The Boche must get away in a
hurry and to do this he must lighten his cargo
and drops 4 bombs. Bang! Bang! Bang! Bang!
behind our camp. Many of the boys get out of
their beds and run to the door. It looks like a
stampede for a time. Streetor and Farrell and a
number of others keep their heads and shout
for the men to remain in their bunks.
Everybody takes up that cry and the men come
back and get into their bunks. Fritz goes on.
We can hear him directly over our heads.
Persistent in his purpose. A mile or so ahead
of us he drops eight more. They are not very
large bombs, but they rock the ground
considerably. Some of the men think that the
reports we hear are from big guns. That is
good, as it quiets some of our men. Fritz
seems to be coming back. He is circling back
again, over and around us. Lying on my bunk I
try to think what it is best to do. I hate to think
of a bomb dropping right into my bunk. I turn
on my side, so that I cannot see it come. More
nervousness, nothing else, for I realize that it
is absolutely futile to do anything but lie
where we are, for if I run, I may run into a
bomb or a piece of shrapnel. Tallon comes in
at this point. He talks as though there was no
bombing. Soon after the sound of the
aeroplane ceases. Sleep well after that. The
boys resume their story-telling for a while. I
watch for a while. Tallon grinds his teeth all
night. Gillece is hurt in a barrage of cans,
soap, paper, etc. His eye is cut. It bleeds
considerably. 
