Author: Thomas James Richards.
Date: July - September 1914.
Rank: Private.
Location: Colombo-Sydney.
Nationality: Australian.



Arrived Columbo
 
No 25
Private Richards T. J.
First Division Austra
Expeditionary Force
Army Medical
England
Katamarang

July 1914 I left Sydney as Manager of the Manly touring side on July 10th and played football at Inverell, after a
train journey of 409 509? miles, we played on the following day and were defeated
by x10 to 9.  On the Wednesday 15th inst. we played at Bridhira Bundarra winning by some 10 to 6.  But  Bundarra is 38 miles South of Inverell, we had a fine lunch at Tingah, the home of tin dredging and got some specimens of grass stone On the 18th Inverell again beat us by some 3 to 0.  On Sunday we motored to Glen-Innis in intense cold, the team went back to Sydney but I stayed over night and worked the town with underware 
&c. going on to Armidale on Monday night. 

The New Zealand arrived that night. I tried to do business but failed. The New England team beat N.Z for the first ½ hour but were eventually defeated by 31 to 6. I trained from Armidale at 4.a.m. and arrived at Brisbane July 23rd. The three games that followed between Queensland (2) & Australia were easily won by N.Z. after very uninteresting displays. The war news on the 9th August prevented me doing any business at all. So I went and enlisted for the front, but the authorities seemed so slow that I went down to Sydney by the "Wollowaka" on August 18th. arriving in Sydney on the morning of the 21st after a rough, sea sick passage I at once set about volunteering for the Light Horse but after wasting four days I found they were full up, no further room. So Fritz Schwarz  and I signed on with the Army Medical Corps and went into camp in Queens Park on August 26th. The first day I drilled with an awkward crowd of fellows & was also an awkward man too. The officers did not know their drill either, most of them are Doctors and without much in the way of military knowledge, but are never the less a splendid set of men. 