Author: Frederick Harold Tubb.

Date: Tuesday 15.06.1915.
Nationality: Australian.

Very hot. The heat is trying. One gets up in the morning feeling washed up out. The flies are a d- pest.  Am getting fed up of this blooming place!
Had a deputation of convalescents waiting on me this afternoon. They are anxious to take the place of my men who are equally anxious to go to the front. (The men who have just come from Malta) state that they have had a bellyful of fighting. Wednesday A beastly day blowy & hot & dusty. Vile!! Am going into Alexandria to make inquiries about exchanging some of my men for Convalescents. I received a memo from Col Elliott, from the front (Anzac Cove) yesterday to send our machine gun spare parts & some Q-M stores. I have them packed ready for transit. I enclosed letters to the C.O. & Major Weddel asking them to send for me etc Have heard that Capt Weddell has been promoted to Major & that Lt Grills has been promoted to Captain (Good luck to them!)  A number of the 7th Convalescent Officers endeavoured to get me on the phone yesterday to attend a dinner at the Club. Am sorry that they couldn't. I would have liked to have been present! 3 pm I am sitting on a box waiting the pleasure of Col Scott who is representing Gen McGregor B Mediterranean Base Forces
for an interview re my application for the front of some time ago. Peter Eller has just left me to go to the Victoria hospital to see Col McNicoll We lunched in the Majestic with Capt Mullen T.O. of the 12th Bn & Capt Bannister of the 4th Light Horse and Lt Belcher 1st Lt Horse Automobile Officer & Capt Brennan M.O. I wonder what Col Scott will have to say to me? I wish he would hurry up & send for me. The Army does not care how long "one" cools his heels" Later Col Scott informed me that he could not tell me anything except that I would be notified in due course. I went to the Aust Base & found that Col Johnson B.C. 1st AIF and Capt Henry Adjt were away. I left a letter asking for information Eller and I had a bonza hot bath at the Union Club (dec (Officers have been made honorary members) I visited the [[photography?]] and saw the proofs of photos of our transport sections they were good We met at the Majestic (that is is the same party as we were at lunch) and dined famously, after which we walked round &
took train for Mena where our batmen were waiting with horses to take us home. We had spent a real good day which we appreciate vastly after the Camp life and fare. I was struck by the large number of Officers in town & in the Hotels & Clubs We know of course that hundreds of them are convalescents, but there appears to be a number that are not! Things are much quieter at the peninsula trench warfare is in progress plenty of hard work. The water is getting scarce as the men are put on an allowance of 1 1/4 pints a day so Capt Bannister tells us. Bannister is in the same regt as Maygar he gave us much news of the doings of the 4th L.H. Their casualties were not many (only 30) so far. By all accounts the German system of espionage is good We I daresay there are spies in our Camp here now they were evidently with us at Mena. A story is told that is corroborated by many During the armistice at the peninsula when the parties  to bury the dead & collect the wounded etc. were together a a German Officer remarked to one of our Officers "Many a good night I had with you boys at Shepheards hotel in Cairo." And After the arrival of the 2nd L. Horse when they were going from the supports to fire trenches a voice in English called out "Hello! Come on 2nd Light Horse we know youre there".