Author: Frederick Harold Tubb.

Date: Sunday 20.06.1915.
Nationality: Australian.
 Two of the men (Tucker & Chappell) attached to me exchanged with two convalescents Wesley & Allen on board a ship that was bound for the front yesterday without permission I am greatly surprised  at men doing this - I am seeking advice as to what to do in the matter. I see by the Times of June 4th that L/Col McNicoll has been awarded the D.S.O. & Capt McGee of the 4th Bn Military Cross & Lt Derham of the 5th a Military Cross Pvte Birell of the 7th the D.C.M. I have made out a report of the missing men giving particulars for the Base Commandant Col Johnson. Eller & I went to Alexandria after lunch & visited Moharem Bay where a fine shooting club is. I nominated for 8 events, but did not succeed in winning any. The conditions are different to our methods
The birds (pigeons) which were a splendid lot, are smaller than ours and much faster; they are thrown out of a pit, not liberated from traps & by jove they do go. 25 yards is the nearest mark. I borrowed a grand gun from one of the members For every bird that was shot inside the boundary I should say that twenty got away. The majority of the sweeps (events) were won on two kills 4 was the highest & 3 the second highest out of 16 events. The betting system interested us. It is done on the tote we did not make expenses but lost only 16 piastres so didn't do too badly! The shooters were of different nationalities and all handled the gun well. We were told that the shooting here is much more difficult than at Monte Carlo, for here the birds are much faster & smaller! We met Mr & Mrs Gilbert (whom we had previously met at Mr Singleton's Cairo) at the Regina & had much pleasure in renewing our acquaintance Sgt Stuart of A coy came to see me to see if he could draw pay thro me. Stuart was badly wounded in the left arm on Apl 25th. He says that they did advance too far on tha[t] morning, his unit a few
men reached crops & grass country about 4 miles from the beach, they of course had eventually to retire, their losses were heavy. Stuart says that he has been informed that only about 20 of the original 7th Bn that left Mena are now standing (!) Lloyd  George has is doing splendid work in England Englishmen in Alexandria state that he is the man of the time. The Manchester Cotton works are turning out explosives and shells in record time Other factories previously used for other purposes are doing the same - I see by the papers Australia is also commencing making shells - Good luck to Australia! Visited the Camp HQrs mess in the evening.  Bridge was being played - came home at 10 pm Colman had just returned from Cairo where he had gone on duty Meena is deserted. The heat is terrible up there, deaths had taken place from sunstroke. Fever is prevalent, many deaths are occurring especially amongst the natives