Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 6 March 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Wednesday Mar. 6, 1918
Weather: mild, clear Health: good
Up at 6:00. Reveille. I do not fall out. Breakfast, French toast, butter, oatmeal, coffee. Finish quickly. Get to work on fires which are not in very good condition. One fire in latrine gives me a lot of trouble. Have to rekindle. It becomes best fire in house. Boys are nearly all in barracks, having been on guard. Those not on guard go to supply company to shovel coal at siding. Many sick men in quarters. Fully a dozen boys are laid up with some peculiar kind of malady which seems to be contagious. It is alternately chills and fever and severe headache. Berkowitz is taken to base hospital. Has high fever. Lieuts. are about all day long looking for details for one thing or another. Boys in and out of Orderly Room looking for passes. Carpenters are at work in half barracks making many strong boxes. Trying to get rid of goodies from home rather than throw them away, I frequently have a snack. Manage to get an hour’s time off to read a newspaper. My work is very interesting, mainly because I have been given a task to do and know just how long I must work. Another point, I am not under orders and surveillance all day. Dinner, roast beef, beans, potatoes, coffee. Light a big cigar and set about working again. Fires are in good condition. Make regular rounds, filling each as I go around. Coal is not very good, contains much dust. New guns are issued. Lieut. Gaston sees that I get a rifle first so as not to retard my work. My piece is smeared, every inch of it, with cosmoline, a quarter inch thick. No rags to clean it with. There is a table to set outside of half barracks and some pails of kerosene for dissolving grease. I work on rifle for 1⁄2 hour, make rounds of fires and get in another spell rubbing off grease. It sticks like glue. Try to speak with Captain about getting furlough. He has no time. Relieved at 5:30, by Ashbury. Bougartz too sick to work. Supper, frankfurters and sauerkraut, potatoes, fruit, tapioca pudding, cocoa. Write to Leah and Mama. Leah tells me in her letter today that Papa and Mama are both sick, probably from worry. Make my bed, shave. Go to PO to mail letters and YMCA for stamps. Back to quarters and spend an hour cleaning gun. A fair job when I quit. Write. Get a sprinkling from someone whom I do not see. Suspect Corras. Go to bed at 11. Made another attempt to speak to Captain. He is busy. Brodsky and Childs are to be court-martialed for misconduct. Lieut. Cook is to prefer charges. He is raising hell with the men. Everybody is glad day is over. What with fatigue duty and guard, the men have been pretty busy. Six men home on pass. Matt and Lucas back. Overstayed leave.
