Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 16 June 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:



Sun. Jun. 16, 1918
Weather: Cloudy, Warm
Health: Good
Up at 6:00. Reveille. A rush for breakfast,
which I avoid by staying in my tent to arrange
things. Hard beans, Karo syrup, bread. I hardly
finish eating, order comes to roll packs to go
to rifle range. Rubin helps me, giving up what
little time he has. Everything is just thrown
together. A stiff jolt would knock it all apart.
Company formed and off in a short time.
Range a kilo from camp. 10 targets. I shoot in
first relay of ten men. I make a very poor
showing, at which Lt. wonders. Not so I.
Whoever told him I was a good shot is
mistaken. Range is an old quarry of brown
sandstone. Lie prone on a shelf of stone,
which lies in strata from 1 1/2 to 2 inches in
thickness, just as if laid one atop the other by
the hand of man. A considerable deposit. A
cave. A high bank on three sides with shelving
rock along the road which leads to it, more
stone on the left. At the crossroads, I spread my slicker to lie down for a nap, while I wait
for the other men to take their turn. Talk and
smoke for an hour. Sleep for another. Awake
to find our men running in and out of gateway
of house to left of road. They have been in the
gardens to pick flowers for their caps and have
found the house unoccupied. I get on the scent
immediately. In a sumptuously furnished
room, an elaborate chandelier, cabinets,
wonderfully carved furniture and woodwork, a
desk, every drawer of which is filled with
papers of military importance, scientific
instruments, seals, books, engravings, works
of art on paneled walls. A music room,
conservatory, sun room, bedrooms in one of
which a bed which was recently slept in, a
calendar, showing date when last occupied,
probably November 17. A cabinet, full of
beautiful jewel cases, empty, but keys in all of
them. On the calendar a little marble plaque, a
work of exquisite art, dress clothes, shoes, etc.
Perfume. Upstairs an attic, which is lighted by
purple glow, giving the place an air of
mystery. Armour room, guns, ammunition, a
fully equipped chemists’ laboratory. A large
reception hall. In the parlor a suite of costly
cloth or gold embroidered upholstered
furniture, an onyx table, a settle and a
footstool, which I fancy for Leah and me. I
want to roam for an hour. Boys play a
phonograph. Some take bits of clothing or
small articles for souvenirs. I take a visiting
card found in the desk, probably that of the
owner, for all seals and other things bear
initials corresponding. A beautiful garden. All
hastily abandoned not so long ago. Cobwebs
over doors and shutters are of recent weaving.
Call to fall in. I tear myself away and my
imagination pictures the owner and his life, on
the march back to tents. Dinner. Boiled beef,
potato, tea. After dinner a formation to attend
a lecture on First Aid and how and when to
apply, at the regimental infirmary. The church
chimes are playing. The village is in gala
attire. Everyone going to church. Coming
from all sides. Quite a walk. Wait for doctor.
He leads us to spot in the woods, where there
is a natural rostrum for him to lecture from.
We sit around on the damp earth. It has been
drizzling for the past half hour. Talk on First
Aid in sickness. For aid to the injured a
volunteer is wanted to strip. Doctor must mark
out position of principal arteries and veins on
him. No one volunteers. Kenny is drafted.
Demurs. Commanded to obey by company
officers. He is a nymph in the wild wood.
Marked up with indelible pencil. Thanked and
dismissed. Doctor selects me for purpose of a
model to demonstrate methods of bandaging
different parts of the body. Does me up all
over. Uses a tourniquet to prevent my bleeding
too profusely. Trusses up all my broken bones
in arms and legs. I am a most interested
patient. Calls for questions. A few asked.
Dismissed. Back for supper. Make inquiries
about my lost blanket roll. It is being traced. It
rains, In spite of which men wait on long line
for supper. I would rather not eat than do that.
Come last but get plenty of good stew, bread
and coffee. Go to pump to wash my mess kit,
which reminds me to pick some cherries for
dessert. Write till 8:30. Go for a walk to .........,
where there is a factory I would like to see. I
can see its chimneys from our town. It is dusk.
Men coming back from ......... by automobile
whose kindly drivers give them a lift. Some
have bundles of delicacies for friends. Some
are full of wine. Men still drinking in houses I
pass. Find the object of my quest is a brick,
tile and conduit factory. A large place, not
being worked to capacity. I go no further into
town. Must get back in time to make my bed
and be present at check. Roll call. Rubin has
unrolled my pack and is making bed alone. I
help him, undress and go to bed. Talk for an
hour about home. I hear from Sgt. that mail
has come in. Asleep at 10:30. It rains hard
during the night but our tent is dry. A guard posted around camp to permit no one to leave
during period between dinner and time to go
to lecture. In the evening we are paid a visit by
French soldiers who speak Italian to members
of our company. A demonstration and
discussion on our and their methods of
bayonet work. Street urchins and young arrive
from village. In afternoon many of our men
from nearby billets visit us. Signal corps,
quartermasters and others. Bring us news of
some men who were with us in camp in US,
men that left us months ago. I reach the
conclusion that what is left in France is a lot of
cripples and simpletons. Hunchbacks are
frequently seen on the roads. Out of 4 men
who are in our camp tonight, 2 are misshapen.
They are very lax in morals. Talk to our boys
as if experienced and steeped in vice. Boys of
6 or 7 smoke cigarettes without discomfort -
like veterans.