Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 2 August 1918.

Nationality: Australian

Text: 

Fri. Aug. 2, 1918
Weather: Raining, Warm
Health: Good
Hike 30 Kilometers to ........ . From
........ to ........ the prettiest landscape in
the valley that I have ever seen. The
rainbow lends beauty to the mountain
grandeur.
Men glad to move off and go off
singing, whistling and cheering, and
end up, tired, footsore and grumbling.
Lose my pipe, which I had in my
layout. Men throw away new things
regulations provide should be carried.
"Lost in Action".
Up at 7:00. Breakfast. Bacon, bread, coffee.
254Wash. Police. Air blankets, look for cooties.
Find three or four and a whole string of nits.
Camp getting ready to move. F Co. rolls packs
and has inspection like those we used to have
at camp. I read my manuscript. Find nothing
of interest in it. Put it away in a book. It begins
to rain slightly. Watch F Company tricks,
which I used to hate so much. They spread out
all their equipment, which is examined by Lt.
Keefer. Since early morning, something which
sounds like a barrage is heard from behind us.
I wash a towel, handkerchief and socks, taking
a chance on them drying in time. At 9:30, Sgt.
tells us we move in a body, going ahead of the
battalion to pick out the road. The corporals
from each company get a map, showing road,
and as soon as we are ready, we can go. We
must all meet at the YMCA in ........ . We
decide to start before dinner to enable us to eat
with E Company. We all roll our packs. It
begins to rain and we cannot go. Police up,
burn letters and papers making a bonfire in the
barracks. Caution men against danger of
dumping bullets into fire. Read until time for
mess. I do not write because we may move at
any minute. Dislike interruptions. Doherty
gets rid of all his candy. Dinner. Boiled beef,
sauce, squash, bread pudding, soup. Doubt
whether we could have had as good a dinner
with E. Still raining. About 2 it clears. Tallon
tells us we do not go until the headquarters go,
so I read instead of write again, thinking to do
my writing after supper. Angry that I had to
put writing into my pack. Corporal draws our
supper rations, cans of salmon, some bread
and crullers. The crullers are eaten at once.
Gillece has come back from the company with
our travel rations: sugar, coffee, 2 boxes of
crackers for each man and a big can of bacon.
None of us has the bacon or condiment cans,
so we can only take the crackers with us. The
bacon, sugar and coffee we ask the limber
driver to put on his limber. Gillece has the
trouble of bringing the big box of rations on
his bicycle for nothing, as we probably will
not see the bacon, sugar and coffee again. At
4:00, the Sgt. orders us to move. Black has
gone ahead to help billet. He rides a bicycle,
because he has sprained his ankle four days
ago. I have left out a few things for packing at
the last minute, which gives the men of my
company an advantage over me. They get
ready and before I know it are off before me.
Angry at their brusqueness. Go off by myself.
Do not notice that I am going by the long
route. Change my course. Meet Sgt. and
others. Fall in with them. We make excellent
time to ........ without a stop to rest. There we
wait for the entire scout detachment to come
up, while we spend whatever money we have
left and borrow money for cakes at the the
Salvation Army Canteen. Give my last bit of
change to Himpler and he brings back nothing
for myself. Split up again by companies and
hike to ........ . There we rest after an awful
uphill climb to get wind for a still steeper
climb, if we cannot get a lorry to ........ . None
comes. E goes off first. I stay behind to roll a
cigarette and go with F. All my legs can do to
carry me up the hill. On top is a lorry which
looks as though it starts soon. I ask one of the
men if he goes our way. He says no. The
driver comes and says yes. He will give us a
lift too. Good luck. In a few minutes we start.
On the road we pass E boys. The driver will
not stop. Boys are angry. I feel sorry for them.
At the YMCA in 10 minutes. We have
lemonade there, crackers and cigars, while we
wait for others to come up and have supper
with us. I read and talk to the French people,
who tell me of the time of the German
occupation. In an hour E comes up, hot and
mad. We eat. Salmon, bread, pork and beans.
At 7, everybody is with us. Some of the men
get a lift of about 2 miles. We were the only
ones who rode all the way. A few of the boys
go looking for beer and do not come back until
we are ready to move on. It showers after
255which there is a wonderful rainbow, then a
double bow. It moves across the sky not a mile
away from us. Its base is in a field at the right
and the foot of a mountain to our left. It still
rains as we go off, leaving two men to wait for
the battalion to come up, and guide them to
the next crossing. We are walking into the
rainbow. At ........ drop two more men. Take a
short cut by a dirt road after crossing the
Meurthe. For a time the right tail of the bow is
only a few hundred yards from us. It is lost to
view. Stops raining. Drop two more men. At
each crossroad we get a rest in that manner.
The next lap is a short one again. Then up into
the mountains for a long gradual, uphill climb.
Meet many companies of the 87th Division
coming down. We kid them, telling them to
turn back, the war is over, we are going home.
They take it good-naturedly. We are traveling
at a great rate of speed. Make at least 8 miles
before we halt. Seems I was never in my life
as weary. More men pass us. Another mile or
more to a crossroad. Luckily we stop long to
confer on which is the right road. We ask
officers of an incoming battalion. They think
the same as we, while Sgt. discusses and asks
who wants to stay here. Black comes along on
a bicycle in the dark. A great stroke of luck.
He tells us we must go in the direction from
which he came, which is at right angles to the
road we were about to take. After Black rests,
we start off again. Glad that I have not been
left here. No shelter at all in sight. All
downhill, so dark that a few times we are
almost run down by automobile and cycles,
which travel without lights. The maps we have
are wrong according to the route Black takes.
In ........, our next stop where two more men
are dropped. The town smells fearfully of wet,
soggy horse dung. From what the Sgt. says,
the rest of us go on to the end of our journey.
Another crossroad, which might not by any
chance mislead the battalion, but the Sgt.
insists that Ernst and I stay. They go on. We
take off our packs and look around us for
some place to get a little sleep. All the barns
and houses are dark and the doors are locked.
Climb into a wagon, a hay cart, and in ten
minutes I am sick of the smell of manure,
which judging by the odor is right under my
nose. My back and sides are sore from the
pack I have tried to sleep on. Cold all over.
My teeth chatter from the chill. Ernst has left
me and gone down below to look for Himpler
and Quigly. I soon follow him. Ernst and I try
again to get into a barn. We meet some men
from the 145 MG. Ask them if they can shelter
us for an hour or so. We go into a corral with
them. At the entrance is a little cemetery
where a few Germans are buried. It is very
dark. Impossible to see the men I am with.
Ernst has gone with someone else to a billet. I
talk to two men about what they have to
expect in the service in this sector. They tell
me of air raids over town in which two or their
men were killed. The people are inhospitable.
They do not favor the Americans, seemingly
pro-German. Soon time for the Battalion to
come along, so I look for Ernst. Find him in a
billet where there is a light and it is warm,
talking to the corporal of the guard. I see a can
of syrup and ask for some. Gladly given to me
with some bread. Stay there for an hour, going
to the door frequently to listen for the sound of
marching men. At 2 I go out to the road again.
Walk up and down between the two posts to
keep warm. Lie down on my back on a board
and manage to get a half hour's sleep,
shivering from chill all the time. I am afraid I
will catch a death of cold and fear for the other
men, too. Still nothing is heard and no one
from our organization is in sight. Think, now,
that they have been lost by taking the wrong
road at the point that puzzled us. Hearing
noise down the road, I go in that direction to
talk to the men and anger at my misfortune in
being picked for such a job as this. I meet
someone in the middle of the road and tell him
256what I think of the army. He looks at me. I
look at him. It is D.... The battalion is behind
him. Get my pack on as Lt. Griffiths comes
up. I tell him I am nearly frozen, in a
conversational way. He thinks I am
complaining. Direct the battalion to the next
crossroad. It is getting light. The column falls
out to rest. Hear from the men what a hard
hike they have had. Many men have fallen out
of ranks. The ambulance picks up all there is
room for, leaving the rest to shift for
themselves. Everyone is fagged out. Sick men
taken from the hospital to move with the
company. They loiter with us and suffer
greatly from heat and fatigue. Resume march
with the scout detachment which leads the
column. An observation balloon is up and we
are in full view of it in the early morning light.
Think it is our balloon so no attempt is made
to hide. Fall out again for a rest and get in the
rear of E, which billets with F in ........ . G and
H go to ......... . Kiernan marching alongside of
me, on a sore foot, just out of the hospital,
limping. I prevail upon him to let me carry his
belt, as I am fine after a half hour's rest. The
town is seen through the trees, a kilometre
away. The sight of the roofs and the kilometre
stone heartens the men. A long time before
everybody is billeted, after we get there. Men
either go to sleep or bathe their feet as soon as
their packs are off. The scouts are not billeted
until last. In the meantime I go with Gillece to
look for plums before we are assigned to a
billet.