Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 26 April 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Friday April 26, 1918
Weather: Fair, Mild
Health: Good, left leg sore
Up at 6:00. Reveille. There is a mist hanging
low. It is damp and cold. Not a sound from the
front. It seems as though a great battle has
been fought and won and the men are taking a
well deserved rest. Not an aeroplane to be seen
or heard. We go up for breakfast. Bread,
butter, coffee. Leg sore without a sign of
blister or callous, just above knee. Feel it most
when marching, Have an hour to myself. Get
out a book to read. Formation with slicker. A
nasty drizzle which makes for naught work I
have put in cleaning and polishing my gun.
We take a different road, less travelled. Pass a
German prisoners camp, fenced about on all sides with an intricate network of barbed wire.
Apparently untenanted. One Englishman in
sight. Accommodations there are better than
those we have, which is remarked by boys
with one accord. Push further on to an open
field. Stop on road for setting up exercises.
Stack guns which we cover with slickers.
Proves ineffectual protection against drizzle.
Pieces are dripping wet. In fields we do
skirmish drill for half an hour. It is time to
return. Rain stops, sun comes out. A pleasant
walk back. Foot and leg slightly better.
Dismissed and formed for mess. Steak, potato,
bread, soup. Our first good meal. Look for an
opportunity to mail letters. Only way is to ask
British to get them through. I will not trust
mine to them. Formation immediately after
mess. Captain in command. Go down main
road through village and onto high road.
Entire battalion is out. Looks as though
something of importance is to be done. Halt
just beyond town. Go down into hollow where
English have constructed a miniature
battlefield, with trenches and a miniature
village on the hillside. Three companies group
around area. English lieutenant explains
purpose of our coming and calls a squad of
men to give an exhibition of quick loading.
Men work in pairs, one loads and unloads.
Other man fills clips. Next an exhibition of
aiming at men in trenches who show their
heads for periods of 4 seconds. One man aims,
another behind him verifies results of
supposed fire. All shots declared hits. Then 3
details proceed to fire at targets in village. 4
men at a time. Their aim is excellent.
Designated targets usually demolished by first
shot fired. Our general comes up. Introduced
to Lieut. and leaves. English method of
physical training shown. They are in the form
of games. Nothing is done in cadence. Men
who are slow are penalized by extra work. we
move across road nearer town when an
advance of men from trenches is
demonstrated. We cannot see very well or
understand. It is more for the benefit of our
officers who pay strict attention. They
assemble for explanation after manoeuvers. It
is past time for dismissal. I am very hungry.
We expect to go right back to billets, but
Captain takes opportunity to drill us in close
order on a fine field. A company of unwilling
workers. Led off field and drill is continued on
road all the way back. I could eat a brick.
Supper soon after dismissal. No retreat. Mess.
Cheese, bread, jam, coffee. Generous portions
given. I am still hungry. Write under shed
behind barn until 8. Then to the village to buy
some chocolate and change a big bill. Get
enough to last for three days. Lie under a tree
in field behind barn until darkness is complete.
Go to bed. Cannot find diary. A big loss to me
because it contains Leah's pictures. Valuable
alone for the amount of work I have put into it.
Make an ineffectual search for it in the hay,
outside under tree, and in my pockets. Give it
up and fall asleep. A mouse running around in
hay near our heads. Men move and I look for
it without success. Runs over their faces.
Frightened and disgusted they pull blankets
over their heads. Mouse comes into my corner.
I beat about in the straw but cannot chase the
visitor. Do as others did and fall asleep again.
Not disturbed after that. Dream of home.
Awakening a disappointment. Anxious about
Leah and Cecelia. Can forget only by staying
with men and singing. Impatient for letters
from home. See two French poilus. Given an
ovation by our men. Impressed with the
discipline of the British so1diers. His manual
entirely different from ours. Everything done
in mechanical. Great credit due to non-com
instructing.
