Author: Thomas James Richards.
Date: 12th March 1918.
Location: Roman Camp.
Nationality: Australian.

March 12th. Monday. Morning Parade:-- Section drill. Musketry. Guards and Sentrys. We were on the "Roman Camp" parade ground. I was called out to drill the section, under direction from the instructor which is a much more difficult matter than drilling a section at ones own leisure. Owing to the damaged shoulder I was unable to do musketry. Afternoon parade:-- Lewis Gun demonstration one hour. Squad drill. The stripping and explanation of the Lewis gun was very good. 1730 Lecture "Intelligence" by Army Corps officer. This lecture was of one hours duration, but never at any period failed to hold the attention of the listeners. In an easy, even tone the lecturer dealt with the form of "Intelligence" that would be needed in open, or semi-open, warfare which was likely to present itself through out this Summer. Each department Division, Battalion and Companys should have 

- 16 - properly trained and reliable observers to follow every movement in the enemy lines. To study the ways and habits of the Germans so as to note any change that he might make. Patroles must be always out watching the enemy; to find out if possible the strength of his trenches the number of men in them and whether he is showing any signs of a further retirement. Reports must be sent in immediately anything worth reporting is seen and one cannot be over careful in noting the little things that on casual thought might be considered of no importance. As valuable information would be useless without proper means of communication we must dealt with communication at once. Telephone is out of consideration so messages must be sent by runners of
through signallers. The daylight signaling lamps appear to be the quikest and most reliable means is reasonable weather. Maps should be carefully read and studied before going into the war zone so that the observers etc. are familiar with the names of roads the directions of same, and the position of the villages. Search parties should be carefully selected to look over the newly captured ground for papers or documents of any kind. Recently a German order was taken showing that all evidences of their occupation in paper form must be systematicly destroyed; Names on walls or names on directing posts to trenches etc. must be obliterated. This, they are doing so that information is very difficult to obtain now. A dirty looking and poorly made map was recently handed to Corps. which turned out ot be of utmost value showing as it did 12 machine gun position. Prisoners are of vital interest in the obtaining of information so they should be hurried back as quickly as possible. Care should be taken that officers or N.C.O.s are not allowed to converse with these men, as they may influence them not to talk. Time fuses and shell directions are especially valuable as we then know the range and if the guns are being removed back preparing for a further retirement.