Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 21 January 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Monday Jan. 21, 1918
Weather: cold, clear Health: good
Up at 6:00. Reveille under arms. Breakfast, bacon, bread, oatmeal, coffee. A drunken brawl in Mess Hall. Five men placed under arrest. My Corporal drunk but quieted before officers come upon scene. A rigid inspection of quarters. Two men reported absent. Outside in firebreak for drill. Corporal though drunk does his work exceedingly well. Fingers are cold. Bayonet drill. To keep warm I work hard and excel. Inside, a lecture on how to roll a small kit and a large pack. Lecture interspersed with hints about going to France. Physical exercise. Dinner. Pork and beans, apple sauce, coffee. Outside at 1:30. Hike to Smith’s Field without a rest and are deployed as skirmishers for 45 minutes until I am so tired that I can hold gun only with an effort. Marched back to Barracks immediately after. Few minutes rest and out for Retreat under arms. Time changed to 4:00 instead of 5:00, which ended the hardest afternoon’s work we have ever done here. Bulletin appears which announces my squad best in 3rd platoon. Supply Sgt. gives out extra suit and underwear. I am on guard. Post #3. Put through an inspection which is new to me. Supper, apple sauce, roast beef, potatoes, coffee. I relieve Walcott. Interesting work taking care of 13 fires and time passes quickly. Off at 8. Read and write till nine. To bed with clothes on for I go on again at 12. Corporal of the guards wakes me. I have cocoa and toast in the kitchen before I start my rounds. Trouble with the Colonel’s fire. Make a great deal of noise in my own platoon room probably because I am too anxious not to. All makes me feel like Papa keeping it warm for children. Colonel’s fire must be made over. This required to be done in silence. Every time I make a noise I pause expecting to hear Colonel wake up and scold me. I try my best for I do not want to forfeit a pass. In half hour the fire is fairly under way. Time to be relieved. Next shift in morning. Result of my night’s work is ruined gloves and burnt fingers. To bed smoking and lie awake for some time. Duties prevented me from securing another uniform, but am not anxious to get one, as I have no place to put it. Waited all day for the opportunity to ask Captain if I could do anything about getting out printing and program for regimental show but do not get opportunity.