Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 11 June 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:


Tue. Jun. 11, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
Up at 6:00. We have stopped at a station
where there are pumps and running water to
permit us to wash and shave. Coffee served
from our cookers. Both doors and windows of
car opened to air interior. Men are somewhat
sobered up this morning. In new country. Field
and forest. Thinly inhabited. Some grain. Wild
poppies, cherries, strawberries. New
construction work going on all along route.
American rails, farming implements and track
machinery. Breakfast. Jam and bread, hard
tack. German prisoners working on roads.
Seem well fed and contented. Algerians,
Moroccans in working gangs. Different rock
formations. No more chalk and pebbles. Hard
gray stone and lava strata. Not an Englishman
to be seen. All French. Plenty of water.
Streams all bridged. No grade crossings.
Viaducts of recent construction. Birch forests.
Yoked oxen replace horses on farms. Hay
mowing tine. Every man, woman or child who
can wield a rake or swing a scythe is out
working in the fields. Soldiers home on
furlough, and in billets doing their share too.
Hills steeper but cultivated nevertheless. Small
vineyards. At stops boys get out for water and
wine. Men are left behind. Officers forbid us
to leave cars except at coffee stops for this
reason. Two of our men are missing. F Co. is
four short. One of their men falls from car.
Sgt. picks him up in his arms and attempts to
put him on rapidly moving train. Cannot get
him into box car or throw him on flat car, and
both are left behind. A regiment of Algerians.
At a crossing one of their bands plays for us as
we go by. Regiment of Poles. Frenchmen
moving back to billets. Large factories.
Cloudy for a few hours and cold enough to
wrap myself in blanket. Tired as are rest of the
men, but I must stay awake to view scenery.
Scribble a postcard to Leah and attempt to
mail it. No one will take it from me. Dinner.
Bully beef, hard tack and coffee from our
cookers. Traveling through a cut most of the
time now and an occasional short tunnel. Few
villages along the road. A coffee stop at 1:15.
Rum and coffee. Do not take any. Train split
into two parts and sidetracked for a half hour.
I look for wild strawberries which were
plentiful along road till now. Find none. Men
manage to get a few bottles of wine from
children. Some cheese, of which I have some,
white, bitter and strong. French soldiers
having coffee and rum are selling rum to our
men. They are filling canteens and cups as
officers leave to superintend forward movement. Train leaves as Lenehan has two
cups of rum filled. He must run with both
hands full and is spilling the precious stuff so
he drinks a cupful as if it were water.
Facilitates movement and he can now make
train. Five minutes later he is writhing in pain
on the floor of his car and becomes
unconscious. Two canteens full in our car.
One swig and a man goes to sleep for an hour,
all afternoon. Hills and mountains. More
streams than ever seen when not riding
through cuts or tunnels. Take a nap after
rolling my pack as per orders to be ready to
disembark about 10 PM. American men and
camps. We are shouting all the time. What
beautiful valleys and hillsides. Supper. Veal
loaf, bread and hardtack. American boys greet
us. Lined up on embankment. At dusk pull
into .........., where American Red Cross
workers give us writing paper and tomato
bouillon. Gun carriages, cars, engines marked
USA for which there is a rousing cheer. Stay
at door until it is dark. A bright golden
crescent of moon resting on a black cloud
shelf, which gradually hides the lower point
until it looks like the top of a golden shell,
which slowly, very slowly disappears behind
the cloud. So I lie down dreaming of peace. A
hard corner near door. I shut my eyes but
cannot sleep. One door still open through
which I see the roof of ........, where we stop,
while lying on my back. Twelve o'clock and
not yet at journey's end. At ........., Wall, who
has taken too much rum, starts a rumpus with
a little Italian in jest, which awakens us all.
We are hungry and think of the rations we
have saved. Candle lit and we have a midnight
supper of hard tack and bully beef. All settled
again for a nap. I collect some straw for a
pillow, smoke a cigarette and fall asleep.
Camps and soldiers along railroad and in
towns we pass only evidences of war to
remind me that I am not touring the country. I
try as much as possible to take an interest in
what I see. It is not hard to forget war amid
such scenes, in the afternoon particularly.
Would like very much to have a map of
France. Maloy has been up all day. He is much
better. A dozen drunks.