Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 24 May 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:


Fri. May 24, 1918
Weather: Raining, Chill
Health: Good
Up at 6:00. Lt. does us the honor. Bathe feet in wet grass. Go for wash and to fill bottles.
Breakfast. Bacon, bread, coffee. It begins to
rain, a fine drizzle at first which grows in
strength. Lt. gives us a little of long discarded
physical exercises, the hardest ones in the
book. They hurt my stomach and back. Lt.
undetermined whether to take us out until he
sees a party of English come up for shooting
on the range. If they can, we can, so out we
go. Try to hint loud enough for officer to hear
that men from 1st Battalion are still in tents.
Have not stirred out of them except for
breakfast. Purpose is to reconnoiter wiring. I
am given same stretch of wiring as yesterday.
Conway to assist me. Our task shorter than
that of balance of men. Therefore we will help
cooks get water. Start for farmhouse. Rain
grows stronger. It is pouring now. Fortunately
we are protected by slickers. They are
inefficient. No protection for knees. Hats a
nuisance. Water trickling down my neck. No
water to be had. Having two missions it is for
us to decide which to finish first as being more
important. We think water for coffee is more
necessary. We wait in keepers lodge until it is
possible to get water. I sit in a real chair
sheltered from the rain and take a nap and a
smoke. It is 10. Grow afraid of scolding from
Lt. for laxity of duty. In spite of heavy rain we
fill dixies and cans with water. Put three dixies
on stick, a proceeding which proves
ridiculous. Too heavy. I take one in each hand.
Stopping frequently across long stretch of
muddy pasture I manage to reach kitchen with
them, but only after I have reached the opinion
that I will never again be able to use my arms.
Men are back in tents as we arrive, which is an
example for us to do likewise without having
covered our assignment at all. Try to dry and
warm my clothes. Of no avail. Tent begins to
leak badly in middle, on sides. It is very damp
and cold in house. Change my socks and shoes
for new ones, never worn. Nap as well as I can
until mess time. A projected stew changed to
bully beef a la scout, coffee, bread, dates. It
cannot be eaten outside. Both of us crowd into
tent. Very uncomfortable while eating.
Warmth of coffee helps me back to good
humour and compensates for discomfitures. I
have managed to dry knees a little, standing by
fire. Write a letter. It clears long enough to
permit us to go to farmhouse, for lesson in
compass readings and, map references, in a
garret, by climbing a ladder and crawling
through a hole in the wall, on a flooring of
brick, without support underneath. Rocks
dangerously. Not interested in lecture. I am
out of circle and cannot hear well, because of
hammering from below. It sounds like a stage
being constructed. I would like to investigate.
Get a chance to steal downstairs. Sure enough.
The limber loads of property and a sign
announcing a vaudeville. London Music Hall
stars. Willy Reeve, Morton, 5 other 1st
magnitude actors. A piano is there already. I
must go. Supper. Beer stew, hardtacks, coffee,
is delayed. Ready to go up to theatre. Lt.
interrupts. Cooks want water. It must be had.
We will get some, bring it back after the show.
Very well. No admission fee is charged.
Crowded house. Electric light, balcony, men
on rafters. Whole company on stage, ensemble
act. Strange how it resembles New York
vaudeville. Dirty tired soldiers for audience.
Straw hats, full dress suits, plug hats, canes,
boutonniers, silks and satins, all immaculate
on stage, small and crude. A good actor is
good and can move by his art under any
conditions. They are wonders. Such songs and
monologues, dances. First enjoyable moment
since I am in army. A symphony orchestra of
25 Men. In middle of second act, gallery caves
in. Our boys are on it. Wood supports and
beams give way. A great crash, much dust but
show goes on. Everybody tumbles in a heap
on straw underneath. Nobody hurt except a
Tommy who has nose scratched. I stand on a
piece of wreckage giving up my dixie for Gillece to stand on and we enjoy show. Would
have kicked myself had I not come. Back after
performance with water. Cold. Would like a
cup of tea. Some embers still in grate. Fill
mess cups with water, boil, make tea. Divide
with cooks who reward us with a piece of
bread with jam. Clear. Go to bed at 10. Sleep
well. No noise of battle to disturb me. It is
much warmer. My new shoes are as wet as
though I had filled them with water. An
Englishman has been hovering about our camp
for a long time. I am trying to find out why.