Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 30 March 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Sat. Mar. 30, 1918
Weather: fair, mild Health: good
In Quarantine. Do washing.
Up at 5:45. Reveille. Take down tent halves. Have breakfast. Sausages, oatmeal, coffee. Police platoon room. Take a turn at cleaning gun. Wish to make a good job of it this week because special attention will be paid to pieces. Captain not here for inspection. Lt. Griffiths takes charge. Gun passed OK. Squad formation as at present will be kept up during quarantine. Check call will be taken to see that all men are here. Boys, I think, take seriously a memorandum which Captain reads at Reveille. It is dictated by Colonel and says that men going AWOL will be classed as deserters, lightest punishment for which so far has been 20 years in the penitentiary. Men who are absent from duty when company departs overseas will be put to death. His manner mimicked by boys. Dismissed for day. No further duty. Practice a little with Mendelsohn at signalling. Meet Jacobson while I am outside for a minute and get him to telephone Leah when he gets to City. He is going on a pass. Our company has 120 passes allotted to it which cannot be used on account of quarantine. Other companies get same amount. 24 hour passes only. Loaf about. Sit on front stoop. Toss a ball for half an hour. Take care of my arms. Read newspaper. Take a nap. Dinner. Corned beef and cabbage, potatoes, coffee. Loaf. I must make up my mind what to do. Decide to write Leah. Long time since I have written letter on Saturday. I want to go out to telephone her but obedience to orders prevails. Father Halligan, Chaplain announces he will hear confession of Catholic boys. Closets himself in a corner where Moore has lain sick and has a congregation of about 25 boys. Retreat. Check roll. Supper. Beans, stew, rice pudding, cocoa. Continue writing, which I have interrupted frequently to eat up what Mother sent me yesterday. A glutton all day. Get rid of grapefruit, pears, 2 apples, 2 veal cutlets between meals, which I do justice to also. Mail letters to Leah and Mama. Get a telegram from Leah telling me she has gotten messages I have relayed to her, and a package of macaroons from Mother-in-law. A letter from Mama. None from Leah. I long for one. Make my bed and rig shelter half. Write. Card games and horseplay in Mess Hall. MacWhinney lets loose. He is cooped up in Supply Room so long that when he has a holiday he is a terror. Boxing gloves, pokers and wet paper balls are thrown about. Boys climb on rafters, play phonograph at 11 PM. Turn out lights in Mess Hall, disturb card game. Officer of day comes in. Everybody ducks. I take a bath. The gang comes in just as I have dried myself. Threaten to spill a pail of water over me and a big joist is poised ready to tickle me. No place to hide. Nothing to protect myself with, so I must entreat them to go away. Like a man up a tree. Go to bed. A little worried about meningitis scare. Sleep well. No report has been received of Sgt. Moore’s condition. Quarantine has given rise to a brand new crop of rumors that we will not be able to leave.
