Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 4 June 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:


Tue. Jun. 4, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
Up at 6:00. A little later than rest of the men.
Pleased to hear that I will mess with my new
platoon. Will not have to see the disgusting
spectacle of giving food grudgingly so that the
giver may have more for himself.
Unfortunately there is a very poor breakfast.
Battalion must make an accounting to the
British for rations on hand. They are short on
coffee, bread and rice, beside other supplies
which must be made up for before battalion
moves. Result, no coffee, bread or milk for
breakfast. A meager spoonful of rice, some
bacon, a few pieces of hard tack. Complaints
so loud that Captain orders tomorrow's bread
ration to be eaten, taking a chance on being
able to buy some for Wednesday's meals. I do
not have to wait or beg. I am cheerfully given
precedence on line when I mention that I must
report for duty early. Boys are going through
what appears to be their morning French lesson. There are four or five words they know
which are being recited by all. One suggests
another until they master quite a few. Some of
them have dictionaries. In office at 7:30. Fox
comes soon after. We get to work. Error which
baffled me last night easily straightened out.
Ask Sgt. to issue an order calling two
Company Clerks to our aid. They come. I set
them to work on their own company rolls. I
arrange a sort of conversion table for them.
They prove more adept at figures than I am.
My figures are still twisted. B.... finishes well
ahead of us. He assists Fox, who I was afraid
would not do very well. In reality he is more
accurate than I, though a trifle slower. His roll
totaled up found correct by B.... . Other man
finishes. Then both assist me. We are annoyed
by the Gas period interrupting. Try ruse of
shutting door again, with success. Unanimous
opinion - it is too bad a job as it is without the
inconvenience of wearing a respirator.
Conversion of sums into francs is finished at
12 sharp, just in time to go to mess. Lend
Pimpl, cook, 10 Frs., a move that pays
dividends, if I care to take advantage of it.
Dinner. Bread saved from breakfast, beef
stew, lime juice. Plenty of it. I hear Captain
asking Mess Sgt, what his suggestions are as
to nature of supplies wanted. Company will
purchase same. I can still find an afternoon's
work to do at Hdqrs. on Co. E payroll, which
is as usual incorrectly compiled. Many
doubtful items in it. Must straighten out
according to my own judgment. Lieut. in a
number of times but makes no further mention
of taking me with him. I wonder if Sweet was
taken instead. Pump Sgt. Major. He is discreet
in his answers. He will further my cause, I am
sure, if opportunity presents itself. Trouble
with additions again. I am either too excited or
too fed up with figures to work properly.
Work perseveringly until I straighten out the
tangle. A number of very loud explosions are
heard. They rock the building noticeably.
Aeroplanes battling overhead. Our men
reported up in squadrons. Work done at 4
o'clock, one hour later than my latest promise
to Lt. Bugler Maurer comes to ask for E Co.
rolls. A correction to be made that will affect
the entire roll. Work ahead for tomorrow, I
see. Haight has been to Rgt. Hdqrs. and has
been informed of his many misstatements on
rolls. They are identical with what I have told
him. He was not satisfied to take me as an
authority on the subject, but now my judgment
on the matters in question is vindicated. I
inform Lt. of the change. I promise to correct
in the morning. I figure it will take an hour to
make the change, then I will take the rest of
the day to myself to do some washing, go for a
bath and perhaps to town. I hear Lt. tip off
Capt. G Co. of destination in coming
movement. Will be surprise to men. American
sector hinted at. Too good to be true. Nothing
would please our men better. Supper, a feast
compared to past ration. Cheese, bully beef,
potato, jam, coffee, bread. Really more than I
would eat ordinarily. Long empty stomach
shown favor tonight, if it ever was. Fuss about
at ration dump for about an hour, discussing
payrolls with Sgt. Back to quarters to write
until 8:30. Set up our tent. It has been taken
down by Reagan. It was necessary for him to
do so to make up a big pack, with full
equipment, which was carried today by all
men who were out on drill. Get a bucket of
water in which I take a refreshing bath before
going to bed. I must refill bucket for man from
whom I borrowed it in order to have use of it
again when I want it. Make my bed and go to
bed at dusk. Reagan comes in a little later. A
little chat before I fall asleep, on general
topics. Tell him latest report of probable
destination. Sleep very well. Fritz and Tommy
are at it hammer and tongs after sundown.
There is no cessation of the fight while I am
awake. Frequent shelling in air mingled with
rattling fire of machine guns. One big gun pounds steadily. Men are making usual
cleanup of chickens similar to foray they made
at last billet, when departure was imminent.
Groups behind billet roasting them. Every few
minutes a shot is heard. A chicken has gone
west. All very well, and to my mind a just
reprisal for having to pay one and a half Frs.
for a bar of chocolate and 9 cents for an
orange, but townspeople have the upper hand
in the game just the same. They report to the
town major who exacts a fine from companies,
which each man must pay a share of. Even I
will have to pay for chicken other men ate.
Unfair and futile. Boys in SOS class have had
an easy morning shooting on small range we
built a few days ago. A moving target is used.
Shooting in the nature of a competition to
determine men qualified for marksmen. Their
afternoon session is spent in same manner. I
meet most of the boys during the day. They
are anxious to have me back in class.
Zimmerman, who was dismissed once before,
is back again in the good graces of the Lt.
once more. He replaces another man. 