Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 8 March 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 

Fri. Mar. 8, 1918
Weather: clear, colder Health: good
Up at 6:00. Reveille. Do not fall out. Breakfast, steak, grape nuts, coffee. Go to work at once on fires. Captain at me, from time he comes into Orderly Room to have a hot fire for him. He thinks I am a magician. A little coaxing brings it into shape but it takes time. A number of times orderly comes looking for me with orders from Capt. about fire. I have lots of work to do today besides tending to fires. By ten I have them all going and take an hour off to read newspapers. Sick boys in all rooms congregated around stoves trying to keep warm. Doctor comes to examine bad cases. Orders men to drink hot water and those who are able to go out for walk in fresh air. All cots, of men who were sick yesterday and are able to get out of bed for a while, must be put out to air. A detail picked to do that. Make another round of fires and find time before mess to take a nap. Do some washing. Very good dinner. Fried flounder, green peas, potatoes, tomato sauce, coffee. Some sick men have double portions of food. Others eat nothing. Make rounds of fires. Take my gun for cleaning. Interrupted for an hour. Spend a long time on gun getting into all crevices and holes. Doctor comes again. Curley, Callahan and others hide when he is announced. Peculiar. Coal up again. Read newspaper. Coal up once more. New men are inoculated. Retreat omitted. All boys are busy packing up articles that must be left behind. Where it was always a case of “gimme” it is now “do you want this or that” and surprisingly cannot give anything away. Supper late. Tough roast beef, cold beans, bread pudding, coffee. A short overcoat has been issued to me. Sew a label on old winter coat and turn it in. Get everything out of box and bag into barracks bag. Get a label for same. Shine shoes. Pass list is up. My name is not on it. Frantic, I discover cannot go home in spite of having pass. No leave to city. No money. For some unaccountable reason I tell Goldsoll about it instead of taking advantage of circumstance myself. I feel sorry all night. Rest. Prepare to take a bath. Go to YMCA to telephone Leah. Two letters from her. She is well. I hate to tell her that I am not coming to city. Promise her that I will come Monday. Let her know gradually that there is no hope of staying in Camp Upton. She is broken-hearted and I must command her to smile. Effect on me is to make me gloomy. A sad goodbye. Too little spirit to take a bath. Wash leggings and shave. Go to bed at 10:30. Homesick, heartsick, despairing. Wonder whether I can withstand siege. As I lie deep in thought a phonograph is started in 4th platoon room. Wakes everybody and ensuing horseplay occurring. Sgt. Curley puts an end to episode and threatens to report. One number played makes me laugh. Finally fall asleep. Sleep soundly.
