Author: Ernest L Muzzall

Date: 30 October 1918

Text:

We received our orders to move on October 30. We hiked back to Brest
where we entrained at 10 a.m. This was our first experience with the third class
compartments of the French railroads. Bare wood benches placed so as to run crosswise of the compartments and rated to hold eight men. This did not allow any
space for full equipment so it was a tight fit as the area was about eight by four
feet. Some of the windows had been broken and not replaced. Fortunately, it was
not yet very cold but it was very drafty. We were issued travel rations consisting
of corned beef, hardtack, bread and canned tomatoes. These we ate as they were,
cold.
We finally left Brest at 10:30 a.m. Surprisingly, the sun was shining and
there were no signs of rain and our spirits rose accordingly. Although I was to be
at Brest for about three weeks on my way home, I never saw a clear day here
again. We were surprised at the well-kept railway tracks. We passed through
numerous picturesque little villages, always clustered about the aged church or
cathedral on the public square. The fields were very green and the farm animals all
looked to be in the best of condition. The cattle seemed not to be of any particular
breed that I could recognize but they were exceptionally large and fat. In most
cases the house, barn and other farm buildings were built in one, using one part for
one purpose, and another part for a second and so on. For the most part the farms
were quite orderly but were not as clean as they might have been. The countryside
was threaded by many small streams. Every now and then we passed a peasant
woman on her knees by the stream, beating the clothing with a club on a rock.
Everything was novel and interesting to our eyes but as the evening wore on it
became cold and damp and the countryside lost its vivid fascination. It soon
became dreary and our thoughts turned to thoughts of warm blankets and room to
stretch our cramped limbs. We passed through the famous little village of St. Malo
and we looked out toward the white cliffs of Dover. All we could see was a distant
bank of fog and in front of it the quaint little village with its white walls and red
tile roofs, its church steeple, all set in a little valley of brilliant green with the silver
neck of the bay extending into the floor of the valley.
Always the farmer of this region had his little farm surrounded by a row of
trees. These he keeps pruned so that they seldom attain a height of more than ten
or fifteen feet. Because of the constant trimming they assume knobby and
grotesque forms. The branches and twigs cut from the trees are carefully saved
and used as fuel.
The countryside in Northwestern France is rocky and hilly with fertile, deep
valleys in between. Altogether, this was a most interesting journey as we travelled
east and then south, arriving at Rennes the first evening. Here the boys gave
Captain Eshelman a lively time. Sharp eyes coupled with a keen thirst revealed a
large and orderly array of beer kegs at the end of the station platform. Willing and
eager hands rolled a barrel to the edge of the platform. A hole was readily made and canteens and kegs were quickly filled by a dozen or so of the men. Someone
reported this event to the captain but by the time he stormed onto the scene all was
over and nothing but an empty keg to be seen. As he checked all the compartments
all were present or accounted for. The Captain had assigned me to some work of
the records so I knew nothing about these events until later.
The second afternoon we passed through Le Mans where large numbers of
American troops were quartered. The railroad ran by a field where a football game
was in progress. We had some difficulty in restraining ourselves from joining the
spectators. The bright colors of the jerseys, the staccato sounds of the signal
callers, and the exhortations of the rival cheering sections presented a very
appealing scene.
The next stop was at Angers. The train made very slow time. Some of the
fellows said that they could walk faster and get to a destination ahead of the train.
Some fellows who were left behind at Saumur actually did hike along the track and
caught up with us at Tours. Angers was located on the Loire River.
On the second evening we arrived at Tours, a fairly good-sized city and a
very interesting one to see. Here an incident occurred that showed something of
the character of our Captain. Before we left the ship in Brest, Captain Eshelman
asked both Lieutenant Bowman and me for our keys to the company record box on
the basis that we were going to be split up soon and only he should have the keys.
As soon as we arrived at Tours the Captain went off some place taking the keys
with him. I was left in the company headquarters on the train in charge of the
records and other equipment. Soon after arriving, a delegation of personnel came
aboard to check our records. It was made up of a major, a second lieutenant, and a
sergeant. They asked me for the key to the record box. I responded that I had no
key. The major said “Does your commander not know that under regulations the
company commander, the adjutant and the first sergeant each are to have a key to
these records?” I replied that he had taken them up and the reason given for doing
so. His response was “We haven’t time to wait and we must check these records.”
And to the sergeant, “Open the box.” The sergeant took the fire axe from the wall
and using the pick struck the hasp and lock from the box, breaking the lid in the
process. The records were taken to the Army headquarters located in the station a
few yards away. Shortly after, Captain Eshelman returned to arrange for clearing
our company for further shipping orders only to find the records gone and to be
apprised of the events. He flew into one of his usual rages and set out for the
station flinging over his shoulder “We’ll find out about this!” In about ten minutes
he returned in a strangely chastened mood and said: “We’ll just have to wait.” At
about 10 p.m. the major who had come with his adjutant and the sergeant to get the records returned with them and our orders for the following day as well. “Over
here, Captain,” he said, “I would advise you to have someone ready to make your
records available at all times and circumstances.” “Yes sir,” Captain Eshelman
meekly replied and viewed the shattered top of the records box with dismay. We
were told by a noncom in the station headquarters later in the evening that Captain
Eshelman had attempted to upbraid the local officers for what they had done and
they in response had given him unshirted hell for holding up the processing.
We finally were on the move again, our train being shunted onto almost
every siding by trains moving in the opposite direction. About 1 a.m. we arrived at
the small city of St. Aignan, a classification and reassignment center for troops.
This was in the famous chateau region of France and at the confluence of the Loire
and Cher Rivers. The men tumbled from the coaches into a heavy drizzle. Guides
led our officers away to their temporary quarters and others took us to our billets
located in narrow wooden buildings in which two decker beds made of two by four
frames across which chicken wire had been stretched. We hurriedly threw down
our blankets on the bunks and spent the rest of the night in profound slumber.
At 5 a.m. we breakfasted on the usual slum and it was better made here than
in most places. Chunks of beef, onions, potatoes, carrots, macaroni or rice thrown
into a G. I. can and cooked up into a mess, sometimes good, sometimes bad,
depending on the skill or disposition of the cooks at the time. About all that could
be said for it normally was that it was nourishing and sometimes hot.
At 8 a.m. we were directed to proceed on foot to Selles-sur-Cher about 15
kilometers east of St. Aignan. Trucks picked up our packs and we started out in
light-hearted spirits on a beautiful day – moderately cold but bright and clear,
altogether one to please the soul. It was Sunday and the peasants in their two-
wheeled carts and in holiday garb were on the roads to attend Mass. For the most
part they were in black, the women’s attire relieved by a dash of white here and
there and by huge white lace headdresses. The roads were magnificent, ‘tho they
had seen much wear and tear from war-time traffic. Airplanes passed back and
forth overhead.
As the morning wore on it became much warmer. Captain Eshelman
became tenderfooted and tired. The permanent cadre guide who was
accompanying us set the pace and moved right along. Soon the Captain was
limping and complaining constantly. He had made the mistake of wearing thin-
soled dress boots instead of regular service type shoes. Finally, he ordered our
company to halt while the other companies proceeded on their way leaving us
behind, much to the disgust of our men. By the time we were about six kilometers from our destination a Dodge touring car came along and upon being hailed by
Captain Eshelman, the driver stopped. Captain Eshelman and the four lieutenants
climbed in, leaving me in charge of the company. In about an hour we reached
Selles-sur-Cher minus our C. O. and officers.
An officer of the French Foreign Legion took us in charge for billeting. We
were taken across the river to the village of Borgeau. This was the headquarters of
the First Depot Division. There were many units of the 41st Division around but I
did not see anyone I knew. Our quarters were for the most part in tumbledown
huts of stone with flagstones of very uneven conformation for flooring. That it was
not intended for comfort I well realized before morning. Some of the fellows were
billeted over stables which were occupied at the time by their regular inhabitants.
We messed across the river in Selles-sur-Cher at the headquarters of the 41st
Division in the historic Chateau du Norge, whose owner left, we were told, at the
beginning of the War. This was a hike of over two miles, three times a day,
besides our routine work.
Our officers were quartered in French homes and had mammoth feather beds
with canopied tops. They were frequently so high that a ladder had to be used to
get into them. The French use very little fuel. The madam places a few little
pieces of wood and charcoal in the fireplace and gently blows it into flame. She
then hangs a little kettle on an andiron and moves it over the coals. She will get a
meal for a family with less fuel than it usually takes us to start a fire with.
All the houses here had stone floors which are swept each morning and then
sprinkled with water from a can with three or four small holes in the bottom. In
spite of primitive conditions most of the homes were quite clean. The people were
very friendly and hospitable.
After less than three days here we received travel orders for 80 men. This
took all but a handful of our remaining men. Most of these went to a base hospital
at Bordeaux. In this group were practically all the men who were my friends at
Camp Lee. Late the same night the rest of us received entraining orders to proceed
to Neufchateau. It was here that I left Captain Eshelman and all the commissioned
officers including Lieutenant Bowman, our adjutant, a very fine man and officer
and whom I liked very much.
We were put aboard a boxcar and our rations thrown in with us as usual. It
was a very cold night and we suffered from lack of any heat. The only source of
heat was from the bodies of the forty of us who were crowded into the one car.
The cars were very dilapidated with many cracks which created many drafts. The
next day we passed through Vierzon, Bourges and Nevers. Nevers is a tremendously interesting city set in a picturesque background. We stopped in a
siding for about a half-hour. In the immediate foreground flowed the Loire River,
banked by miles of masonry. Here one could step from a boat to the street.
Crossing the river and leading to the city were two wonderful, arched, bridges
made of stone. Nevers is built on a hill, the streets being terrace-like in structure
and lined with shade trees. At the crest of the hill is a huge cathedral, the spires
reaching to the sky. As we gazed at the great building two American planes
circled over the city, their white wings glistening against the intense blue of the
sky. As we watched, there came to us the high voices of children playing on the
quai. The Loire Valley is beautiful beyond words. There were a few light patches
of snow on the higher elevations. Oddly, although it was quite cold, the fields
about the city were very green. Now it was time to move again and we swung
around the base of the hill upon which the city was situated, crossed one of the two
bridges and headed east for Dijon and then Neufchateau.
There is one wonderful organization that I have neglected to mention which
was responsible for any bit of comfort we may have had – the American Red
Cross. During these days of continuous travel we had no hot food and lived on
‘iron rations’, made up of canned corned beef, bread or hardtack. But once or
twice a day we would stop at some city or village where the hard-worked but
wonderful American women served us with hot coffee. Their friendliness and
concern for us was heartwarming. The sight of their blue uniforms, white aprons,
the red cross on cap and apron looked better than gold to us.
We passed through Dijon after dark and so were not able to see anything of
the city. We finally reached Neufchateau about 5:00 p.m., cramped, stiff and dead-
tired from long hours of travel in overcrowded box cars, caring for nothing but a
place to drop ourselves and our packs. Since we had to lay over here until the next
day it was necessary to find a place to spend the night. Finally our commanding
officer, a lieutenant, gained the reluctant consent of the Y.M.C.A. Secretary for us
to sleep on the floor of the auditorium after a show, then in progress, was over. As
it was about five hours before the time set for the end of the program at 10:30 p.m.
we had some time to put in so we went out to look the town over. Neufchateau
was the last rail center before Verdun or on the St. Mihiel front so it was a crowded
and busy place because of the troop movements to and from these areas.
Neufchateau was quite modern for a French city. I walked into a small “epicerie”
to buy some apples and was startled to see some canned milk on the shelves
labeled “Cascade Milk, Snohomish, Washington”
.
Later in the evening we went to the Y hut and stood around the edges of the
audience to watch the latter part of the program of army talent perform. As soon as the show was over we helped fold the chairs and put them away. We wanted
brooms to sweep up the debris but were told that they were not then available, for
what reason we did not know. So we put our blankets down as best we could.
There were so many men sleeping in the place that we were packed in elbow to
elbow. The show had been put on by the members of a base hospital located
nearby.
Boarding a train again the next morning (Third Class French coaches this
time) we were soon on our way again and, this time, the last lap. We were to
proceed to Blercourt, a small village just a short way from Verdun. It was here
that we were to join Army Mobile Veterinary Hospital #1, First Army. A mobile
hospital was the counterpart of a field hospital in the Medical Corps. This move
took us directly into an area fought over from the beginning of the war. We were
pleased to reach the end of our travel and join our assignment but somewhat
apprehensive, too. The reason for this was that in the Vet. Corps we did not have
the rating of non-combatants given to the men in the Medical Corps. For this
reason we were armed with Colt 45 pistols and had been give thorough instructions
in their use at Fort Riley. We could be called upon in any time of need to serve as
combat troops. As it turned out, this never happened. Our lieutenant was very
nervous. He told me that he had a wife and family at home and he had no desire to
go to the front. He had thought he would be assigned to a base hospital, but here
he was – Lieutenant Cusick – headed for Verdun.
The nearer we got to the end of our journey the more terrible were the
evidences of modern warfare. Torn up and demolished villages, cast off
equipment and broken gun carriages, parts of uniforms, shell craters and churned
up ground. Buildings left standing were scarred by rifle, machine gun and shell
fire. Yet in some of the villages the French people were returning to their homes
apparently to stay. We stopped at a little crossroads village with a name that
sounded like Charleroix but I am not sure this is right. Here the Red Cross had
coffee ready for us.
As the day wore on we passed through more and more torn up regions. The
destruction was inconceivable unless one saw it. This was the place where the
heaviest fighting went on during the late summer of 1918. Here again were vast
amounts of war debris. At last we came to what was left of a small village. There
were but two walls left standing. The north wall of the station carried the name
Aubrécourt and one wall and part of another of the mayor’s home. This place had
seen terrific action in September. We were held up here for about an hour and
spent the time watching the German POW’s clearing up the debris. They looked at
us in various ways; some appeared curious, others were sullen, and a few seemed to be amused. I wondered if it were not that they said to themselves that we did
not know what was in store for us soon.