Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 10 August 1918.
Nationality: Australian

Text: 

Sat. Aug. 10, 1918
Weather: Fine, Warm
Health: Good
Hike 3 kilos to ........ . Go about 70
kilos in motor lorries and hike a kilo
and a half to outside ........
Up at 7:00. Breakfast. Hash, biscuits and
coffee. Told to roll our packs by 10:30, which
gives us plenty of time. Wash and get to work
at once on my pack. This time it is lightened
by being minus a tent pole and pin, which I
have loaned to Gardiner. Made heavier by the
addition of an overcoat, which the Lieutenant
has finally convinced us we should carry.
Black goes to the company supply sergeant
and brings back one for every E Co. man. To-
day, we have a heavy burden to carry, taking
into consideration the 160 rounds of
ammunition which we must cling to. My pack
ready, I write for an hour. The time of moving
has been postponed for an hour. At 11 we
form and march into town, having previously
eaten a bit of biscuit and some hash. E Co.'s
men and officers are in the town square
waiting for the command to march. About 2/3
of the company go up the line; the rest
remaining behind to look after supplies or
something of that sort. The kitchens remain
behind also. They cannot be taken along to-
day. The cooking will be done in a few dixies
which are taken on the truck. Major in the
square as neat as a pin, on horseback, issues
the order to wear tin helmets for which he is
heartily sworn at. We go at head of column.
Fall out as usual, a few hundred yards down
the road to say a little more in praise of the
Major. Griffiths is becoming very strict with
us. We are beginning to grouch with him, too.
Hike to the crossroads in the hot sun, where
we see a line of trucks as far as the eye can
reach. The first battalion already embarked, 16
272men to a lorry. For a time we do not notice the
lorry drivers. Then I discover that they are
Chinese coolies. It strikes me as funny to be
driven by them. There are two to each lorry,
stupid leering individuals. We all wonder how
they were ever taught to drive. We go up the
road past hundreds of lorries. That train and its
drivers is a thing of record. We go uphill till it
seems the Major will never halt, then after a
little rest we do squads left about and walk
down hill in column of twos, are counted off
in groups of 16, by the French loading
authorities, and are packed into tight quarters.
Our equipment takes up all floor space. We sit
on benches along the sides and 4 men on the
tail board. We amuse ourselves at the officers'
expense. Then we begin to think of eats.
Everybody is hungry, and there are apparently
no preparations being made to feed us. We are
sorry we have not taken tinned meat and
biscuit with us. Doherty tells a Frenchman of
our plight and we get a half a loaf of bread
from him. It disappears as if by magic. Wait
impatiently for the train to start. Every one of
the many cars is filled to capacity. It is now a
question of providing for the officers. They
are bundled into a large lorry. The Major rides
in a Ford with the adjutant. Orders given to go,
the lorries crank up while we wonder if our
lives are safe in their hands. They are off with
a safe interval between cars. They go like hell,
giving us an awful bumping. We are given to
understand that it is a five hour trip to where
we are going. Pass through ........ where we are
given a hearty cheer by the women. Soon the
men on the tail board are white from the road
dust. They are queer looking men with white
hair, eyelashes and a coating of dust on their
noses and around the mouths. In the car it is
not so bad, but my eyes and nose smart
considerably. We find that these coolies can
drive lorries. The train stops outside of ........ to
let a railroad train pass. We get off and run
into an orchard, which we quickly denude of
green apples. I get enough to give everybody
in my car some. They sharpen my appetite.
We clamor for something to eat until McLeary
and Deys, who have many biscuits as their
iron rations, give then up, one to each man.
We want more. Going through hilly country
now, all sown in grain most of it cut or being
cut. All Short stops along the road made where
there is nothing to eat to be had. Above ........
which has the marks of the Hun's work on it,
and is a pretty busy town, there are signs of
German occupation. In one place the forest
has been cut down, for the manufacture of
wire stakes of which there are hundreds of
thousands. Cross the ......... and see lines of
trenches, shell holes and battered forests.
Down into a beautiful valley. German billeting
and direction signs in ....... . Cross the ........ at
........ . The scenery is as pretty in my
estimation as along the Hudson at home.
Beautiful villages once, as many on the other
side of the river, some of them more fortunate
than others, but most of them ruined. There
are many rich men's houses of modern
construction of varicolored stones and
concrete. American troops quartered in .......
which is large enough to have had a trolley
car. The men are at mess. We tell them we are
hungry and they hold up their mess tins to us
as we pass and snatch their bread. See our
artillery, ready to move at instant notice, on
tractors. Ask a quartermaster truckman to
throw us a can of salmon, which he does. We
are not faring so badly for food after all. We
are fortunate. A hillside scene beyond
comparison on the road to ....... . A vineyard
on the slopes in a semi-circular formation of
many kilos. Our men all along the route now.
We exchange greetings. In ........ a once
wealthy and beautiful city damaged beyond
repair. Outside the city are the battle fields
with a million shell holes, splintered trees,
abandoned ammunition, graves, in the fields
and by the roadside. We are all sore and stiff
273from bumping. Everybody has a headache.
Black very sick. My box of crackers is stolen
and eaten. An aviation field on what was only
recently German ground, where are their
graves and sign posts. Many of our men and
machines. We stop on the road. Run over to
take a look. A wonderful engine in those I see.
They are much smaller than I imagined. All
American made. One is trying out its motor.
Find that we were being convoyed by
aeroplane all through our trip. Pilot getting a
relief here. Through ....... and ........ which the
Boche has just left. A church smashed to
pieces, one of the finest in France; the clock is
still going. Next along the battlefield is .........
which proves to be our destination. It is dark
as we pull in. A large town, an important one
in the recent operations. Surprised to find a
few women and civilians about. I cannot
imagine where they can live. The streets
choked with soldiers. We beg two big loaves
of bread and from one shop obtain a can of
peaches. March off to our billets, which no
one knows how to locate. We turn about in the
narrow street. I can see no place where we
might sleep indoors. The men ask questions
which we answer and we in turn get news of
the day's operations and answers from them.
We march out of town. Here only 20 kilos
behind the lines are men without even a mask
on them, which makes us laugh. See the
Colonel. Ordered not to muster. The railroad
station and tracks destroyed. We stumble and
trip over men in the dark. Hear distinctly the
sound of an engagement, see the flashes of the
guns and the slowly rising flares and artillery
signals. Take a very circuitous route to our
unknown resting place. Every five feet a shell
hole. That is something new. The smell of
rotting dead, improperly and hastily buried, or
parts of bodies not buried at all. A frightful,
fearful thing in the dark. We hold our noses
and turn about but the stench comes from all
sides. Every few yards we get a whiff of it.
And here we will sleep. Turn into the woods
and are told to pitch our tents. I have no pole
or pins. Shout for Gillece to come and bunk
with me. A long time finding him in the dark.
We are not permitted to use lights, an order
which is disobeyed by those who have them. I
look up into the starlit sky and wonder what
will happen. Unroll my pack and with Gillece,
make up our bed, two slickers and tent halves
on the ground and two blankets and overcoats
for covering with our coats on. Gillece has a
box of crackers which are eaten. Doherty
comes up to join us. Men go for dry rations.
We get a can of hash and some hardtack for
the three of us and fill our bellies before we
get under the blankets. A faint stench greets
our nostrils occasionally. We sleep with dead
men. Shrapnel under my bed and pillow. The
sky lit up by flares and the flash of guns. There
is a constant rumbling and booming in the
distance, not very far from us, much more than
at any of the nights we have spent in the ........
sector or the positions we held around ......... .
There is probably another gain made by our
men. Artillery fire is as constant as in a
barrage. Surprised that no guard is stationed
around. We have no definite knowledge of
how long we will stay here. And, as I have
said here before, I have become an admirer of
the coolies. They are good workers and
generous in the extreme. Theirs is a job of
hardships, which they bear smilingly. We have
much less spirit than we began with, after
observing activity here.