Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 12 June 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:


Wed. Jun. 12, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
Hike 19 Kilometres to .........
Awakened at 2. We have reached destination.
Ordered to put on packs, turn in rations and
get out on a station platform. All the men who
were drunk are able to move but Lenehan. He
cannot be stirred and is in great pain. Allowed
to lie in car until company moves off, when he
is packed into an ambulance along with a few
others. Formed in platoon to take roll call.
Take off packs and wait until wagons and
ration is unloaded. I am sleepy and grouchy. It
is cold. Must walk up and down to keep warm.
When fire is started I stand near cookers.
Growing light rapidly. Men scramble for
water. Many parched throats. Told how to
deport ourselves among soldiers in sector. To
the best of our knowledge a six mile hike is
before us, tired and hungry though we are. We
lead column and hit up a brisk pace through
village. A large factory, shops and named
streets. ........., a sizable town. Women and
men up with the light of day, look at us from
windows as we go by. It is uphill, beautiful
country, hills and plateaus, along brooks and
through forests. I have nothing to say. Will not
listen to chatter of men. Wish only that Leah
were with me to enjoy a leisurely tour through
this part of France. March a half hour and halt.
Some men break through, come to brookside
and refresh themselves with a wash. Others sit
down to rest. A good many fall asleep in a few
seconds. Up again and march for a full fifty minute period into .......... Another march to a
wood outside of .........., where we halt.
Cookers and water carts come up. Off goes
pack. Captain tells us we breakfast at 7 and
rest till 1, when we move in. Most of us fall
asleep. I feel somewhat fresher and remain
awake. Breakfast. Coffee and a piece of hard
task. Complaints, Some men do not even get
that. They have slept and did not wake till late.
Not enough ration to last till end of line.
Captain disturbed and takes personal interest
in arrangements for dinner. Has platoon Sgts.
announce that we will have a good dinner at
11:30. Wants us all to rest till then. Roads and
towns out of bounds. Does not deter men from
stealing out through woods to village for eggs
and a swim. Most go to sleep on their slickers.
I go into woods, where I will not be disturbed
and write. In ten minutes I fall asleep, pen in
hand. Nap for half an hour, then go back to
camp. Lie down on Maloy’s slicker, but
cannot sleep. Toss about till 11. Get up to see
how dinner is getting on. Water carts are
empty, so nothing has been done except to
empty canned stew into dixies. Officers are
becoming anxious lest we cannot leave at 1. I
am sent to look for water. Find strawberries
instead. Water cart comes back. Stew is ready
in 15 minutes. Write rather than wait on line.
Dinner. Stew and coffee. Boys want to know
where promised good dinner is. Make up
packs, leaving blouses off. It is very hot. Off
at one promptly. Supply company mourns one
horse, which died and has been buried in the
woods. They have trouble starting account of
flies bothering horses. We wait five minutes
for them to come up. Off again for a full hour's
hike, without rest, along an excellent road, but
mostly uphill. Hay is being cut in every field.
We pass by one close to the road from which
the breeze blows to us an odor sweeter than
any perfume. Women, children, old men,
soldiers home on leave, all at work raking it
into wagons made of what looks like two
ladders, one on each side. Rest for 15 minutes
and at the end of the next march come upon a
village where some of our men are quartered.
Questions about Jim and John and a hearty
welcome. A pump in the square where we halt
is immediately besieged by thirsty men with
bottles. A fight to get water, which lasts till
time to fall in. Boys still fight for water
ignoring call from officers to assemble. Those
who disobey will be punished. Push on for 50
minutes past another village, where there is a
stream which makes men shout with delight.
But we do not stop here. So they grow entirely
mutinous and shout to be allowed to fall out.
No heed paid to them by Major or Capt. until
time is up. Fall out in a wood, told we have
only 25 minutes more walking to do, which
proves correct almost to the minute. Pitch tests
in a cut hayfield at the entrance to the village.
Some discussion as to how tents are to be
lined. I take a half hour's nap in the meantime.
Do not have to move. Shave. Write. Fill
canteen which has been empty all day. Supper.
Rice, figs, tea. Short rations. None have come
up from quartermaster. A scramble for eggs,
all over town, bread and milk which are
source. Wine is cheap, so plenty is bought.
Walk through village to a brook to bathe my
feet. It is as cold as ice. A wonderful tonic.
Come back to tent and write till dark. Then
light candle and continue until 10:30. Go to
bed. Sleep well. In all the villages we passed
on way up from RR station, water is very
plentiful. A brook or two flows through each.
There are troughs in the squares into which
water flows in a constant stream from a spigot.
Every house has a miniature shrine over the
door, shrines by the wayside. Dwellings
mostly two story affairs of white sandstone.
Not very well taken care of. Very old. One
built in 1720. Few men about. Quite a number
of children and old women. Washing is done
on flat, brown sandstones mounted on troughs.
We make use of them at once. Cherries, plums, strawberries plentiful. Mountains in the
distance. Wood plentiful. Lenehan has been
with us on afternoon hike. Begging for water
every minute. His stomach must be in very
bad condition. He has emptied canteen of
every man near him on march. Lt. forbids him
to drink anymore, but he is desperate and
disobeys. A pitiful sight to behold. Long hair
disheveled and face drawn from sufferings.
Every hike finds someone in trouble for a
similar cause. I have had very little water
during day. Cannot tell how distant we are
from front. Only a few distant rumblings of
cannon heard. One aeroplane‘s hum. Charmed
beyond description with surroundings.
Thu. Jun. 13, 1918
Weather: Fine, Warm
Health: Good
Up at 6:00. Reveille. Captain tells some very
good tidings. The day will be given up more
or less to rest. A formation at 9 o‘clock,
another for Retreat at five PM. Free to go
wherever we please within a reasonable
distance from camp, excepting in 1st Battalion
area. Breakfast. Fried evaporated potatoes, tea.
I am one of the very few satisfied. Eggs are in
great demand. Sardines, peas and whatever
canned stuff can be bought is procured at very
high prices. I do some washing. When I come
bank I find we have been ordered to prepare
for inspection of all equipment at 10:30. Get to
work immediately. Show everything that I
have. Clean my very rusty gun. Tents must be
taken down, halves folded up. Report is that
Fritz is up taking aeroplane pictures. Same
procedure to be followed every day. A
nuisance. Trucks done up with our small
blanket rolls. Most of them are broken up.
Many can not be found. I spend more than an
hour hunting for mine. Look for it in every
company pile in vain. I am worried over loss
for Leah's letters are in it. I value these more
than remainder of contents. Trucks have come
directly into field and wheels have sunk into
soft earth. A difficult task to pull one of them
out. Two trucks are needed for tow. From time
to time, I make an examination of rolls
remaining unclaimed but mine does not turn
up. Report same but nothing can be done.
Hang around entire morning waiting for
inspection of my equipment. Decide to go into
woods behind tent to write until noon mess,
keeping a watchful eye peeled for officers if
they should happen to reach my tent. They
abandon idea of inspection, asking men to
report shortage of equipment to Supply Sgt.
Mess. Evaporated vegetables and bully beef
stew, tea. Enough stew to go the rounds twice.
Captain takes measures to hurry delivery of
rations. Situation becoming serious. Nothing
left in kitchen. Reserve all used up. Bread
greatly missed. Chickens in danger of their
lives. I see two which have already sacrificed
their lives to help win the war. One woman in
the town has cornered the egg market, a thing
little expected in this sleepy village. She gets 5
Frs. per dozen for them. Traveling notion carts
come into the square and do a thriving
business. Men need ink, soap, pipes, combs,
paper, etc. Charge a franc or more for the
smallest articles and 1 Fr. for a bottle of ink
which I buy. Later in day prices recede. I look
for a quiet spot to write. Follow brook which
runs through village into the woods. Men are
bathing naked. Women in fields look on or
pass by making comment, unabashed. I find a
spot in woods to suit my purpose. A moss
covered stump for a writing desk. Comfortable
while I smoke. Run out of matches. Cannot
light pipe. Horse flies and large mosquitos
drive me away. Walk to camp along edge of
woods to look for strawberries. Find a few.
Loaf for a few minutes. Begin writing a letter
to Leah. Seriously worried about scarcity of
mail. What I write cannot be posted either, but it will be in readiness as soon as arrangements
for mailing can be made. Supper. Bully beef,
mashed potatoes, rhubarb, tea. An excellent
meal. I was under the impression that Captain
purchases potatoes and rhubarb with money
from mess funds, but hear later that Del Duca
was the donor of it. Captain has word that
rations are due to arrive before six in the
morning. Pitch tent, make bed, thankful for
extra blanket from Rubin's roll. Continue
writing. Lieut. Cook and men are having a
great deal of fun tossing men in a blanket. I
await my doom, expecting to be called upon
every minute for Lt. says purpose of game is
to liven up the "dead ones". I am sure men
would have been delighted to give me a ride
but Lt. Cook respects me as an old man and a
papa writing to his loved ones. Large and
small lured into the circle, surrounded and
tossed until men are tired. Rank not
considered. Non-coms get as much attention
as privates when supply of "grease balls" runs
out. Rubin caught. Tossed twice. Blanket
splits. Another taken. Kept up until long after
dark. Men asleep in their tents taken out for
the purpose of shaking up their supper. Men
from other companies caught. Everybody‘s
grudges satisfied. Next tent to ours, boys are
gathered around singing endless song, which
is extremely clever though smutty. Mason and
another drunk, proclaiming he does not care
for the crowned heads of Europe but is a great
friend of Presidents. I finish writing as
darkness comes. Go to bed. Lie awake talking
to Rubin until 11 o'clock. Discuss merits and
virtues, accomplishments of our wives at
home. Is it well to have a baby at home or not?
I have, Thank God, and I am happy that Leah
has someone to love and fuss over in my
absence. Someone to inspire her and give her
courage. I live over again all the events of our
courtship and marriage, say my prayers and
fall asleep. Awakened at three by rattle of
ration wagons coming in. This is an ideal
summer camp. Not a suggestion of war all
day. Everybody has scoured neighboring
country for cigarettes and chocolate. Not a
canteen found. Our usual luck. Two men from
company have an arrangement with a lorry
driver to bring supplies from .........., 12 kms.
distant. Officers give their consent. No sign of
my blanket roll.