Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 14 July 1918.

Nationality: Australian

Text:


Sun. Jul. 14, 1918
Weather: Fair, warm
Health: Fair
Up at 8:00. Have breakfast. Rice, bacon,
bread, coffee. There is some shelling, also
aeroplanes up, which are attracting shell fire. I
lie down on my bunk. Am not feeling extra
well. Fall asleep for an hour. Wash at the
brook. An aeroplane is up somewhere. I am
anxious to see what is on the other side of the
railroad track. Make an attempt to investigate.
Before I am well started an ominous swish is
heard. Sounds near enough to scare us. Seems
it will drop close to us. Lands somewhere in
the vicinity where he played for on Friday. A
machine gun close at hand. No place for me. I
get my towel and go upstairs. He continues
shelling. From our window, we can see what
they sit and where they land. High explosive,
large calibre shells. Our artillery essays to
return MG fire. Five or six shells to Fritz's one
for a few minutes. This calls for a punishing
fire from Fritz. He literally rains shells upon
the road between ........ and ........ The damage
he is doing must be considerable. He silences
our batteries entirely. I do not think he puts
them out of action, but it is evidently useless
to reply. Our boys grow hilarious in their joy
at the spectacle. Mark 41! Good work! Keep it
up!, etc. I go downstairs to sit at the table
under the tree, where I wish to write. In a short
time, I am interrupted by three men who have
just come in from an all night ambush patrol.
The shelling has not ceased. They sing over
our head constantly. Renny, one of three men,
is making a show of bravado, chaffing his
companions about being white livered. He has
issued a challenge to Fritz to come over from
the center of a shell hole. He thinks because
his companions have not done that, they lack
courage. I must go away. It disgusts me to
listen to him. Go upstairs again, where it is so
noisy, that I cannot write. So I take another
220nap. Sleep until twelve. Dinner. Beans, bread,
coffee. That is bad for my stomach. Lie down
again. Fall asleep. Awake at 2. Begin writing.
My mind will not work well. I begin to think a
little exercise will do me good. I would like to
go for a walk. Sgt. Stewart comes in with a
solution to the problem. He has a message to
be delivered to Capt. Frothingham. It has been
my intention to see him in regard to passing
Lt. Griffith's note on to the Capt., who relieves
him when his own company goes back to rest
tonight. I volunteer to go. I find the Captain,
give him the message, receiving an answer.
Then tell him who I am and that I have been
sick. He tells me that I was almost to be turned
in to the MR as a deserter. I express surprise.
Must report at 7 o’clock to be turned over to
the company relieving. Go with him to locate
a Very pistol add two white flares. They
cannot be found. No one knows where they
can be procured. I get a pistol, but no lights.
Take back with me two flares of some kind,
which no one knows anything about. Report
back to Lt. Godfrey. He does not know what
to do with the flares. I write a letter to Leah
until supper time. A lean supper. Potato
pancakes, bread, coffee. Write until 7 o'clock,
when I report to Sgt. Lt. Godfrey calls his men
together to instruct them in what he intended
to do to-night. I meet Wager later and ask him
most sincerely not to some back, telling that
another man has been wounded or killed. At 7,
I meet Sgt. Pittman. He is one of those close
order fiends. We must march in formation and
all that sort of rot. My anger at the practice
blows away in an instant when I see that he
has mail for me. Officially turned over. Our
mail is handed out to us. I get the fright of my
life when I see under the first envelope, two
with a mourning border. I feel faint - relieved
to find they go to Lenehan. He always get his
letters on such stationary. 5 from Leah, one
each from Becks, Dolly, Lottie. No chance to
read them. I must go to work. Loading and
unloading a trench. It begins to rain. As I have
no raincoat, the other fellows do all the work. I
go back as soon as it stops raining, I must do
gas guard from 12 to 3. I offer to do so gladly.
Men have gone out on patrol. Read my letters.
All good news. Leah‘s anniversary letter to
me. Baby's picture has been taken and is on
the way. Read each letter twice. Write more to
Leah, suggested by her letters. Raining
intermittently as I write alone. Other men who
have not gone on patrol are asleep. I intend to
remain awake. No use going to bed, as long as
I have a letter to write. At 11:15, Bennett, one
of the men who had gone out on patrol, comes
into quarters looking like a ghost, panting for
breath, wringing wet from sweat, with an
order from the Lt. that every man in the place
dress, fully equipped, and meet him outside, in
the street. Men are awakened and dress,
everybody excited, not knowing what to make
of the order. It is quiet outside but for a few
shells from our guns going to Fritz. I put away
my writing, get on my things, and when I am
all dressed, Milne comes in looking just the
same as Bennett, when he came in. Something
mysterious is in the wind. Mere men come in,
look frightened to death. One of the men, R...,
whispers to me, "Dick (Sgt. Stewart) has been
shot". I am shocked, sorry beyond words. He
was such a nice fellow, I admired him so, in
the morning in the full bloom of health. The
order now is to stay indoors. We talk in
whispers and discuss the tragic affair. It seems
he is wounded in the face. Renny, the man
who displayed so much bravado in the
morning is the culprit. He mistook Stewart for
a Boche the men say. I cannot believe it. I am
disgusted. Lie down in the dark. The candles
have been put out and windows opened. I hear
a scuffling in the next room. Whispering,
excitedly, we rush in. They have brought in
Renny, the man who did the shooting. He is
delirious. "Dick, Dick, Dick. I didn't mean to
do it" he is saying, crying, struggling to be
221freed. He wants to kill himself. Boys whisper
that Dick is alright. Soothe him. Plead with
him to be calm. Poor fellow. This morning so
brave and now! Other members of the patrol
straggle in. All the worse for their experiences.
Wager has sprained his ankle. Lt. assures men
not to worry. Stewart is being attended to. No
one knows where he is, it develops. I go on
guard. Men are being sent for a doctor. I am
sent to Capt., then told to stay. Relief coming
in. Halt a man a minute. No one gives the
password correctly. Stewart is brought to the
door on a stretcher by four men who have
carried him over No Man’s Land. He is a
brave lad. Breathes with difficulty. His lung
has been penetrated by the bullet. He is taken
to the dressing station after a great deal of fuss
and red tape. Afterwards, different versions of
the affair come in. Street is quiet after 1. A
few shells and a little fray in the area to left.
Go to bed at 3. Boys remain awake long. Their
nerves are shattered. One man stays awake to
guard Renny. He falls asleep at 2.