Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 30 May 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 


Thu. May 30, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
Made a First Class Private. $3.60
increase in pay, taking effect as of May
28.
Up at 6:00. Wash. Police. Air blankets.
Breakfast. Bacon, coffee, bread. Nothing to do
but sleep. I am pleased with last night‘s
performance and would like more of it
evidently. A shell in wood as near as night
before. Shells aimed at road are not doing
much execution. They make little report,
landing in sand to south. Sleep till nine
o'clock. Then sent with Black and 3 others to
take bearings on five points from northwest of
clump of woods. My morning's work consists
of pacing off distance to two points. Miserably
lazy. Lie down on the grass and ask the daisies
a question which they answer to my
satisfaction. The Company has come up to
spend the day and night along their sector.
Whole battalion out. All officers. They are
having even less of a holiday than we. I feel
sorry for them. On way a shell hits fifteen
minutes before their arrival at a spot 50 yds.
from them on road. Bring me news that I have
been made First Class Private along with all
the men in Scout School. Of my regular squad
5 have been promoted to 1st Class. Payroll
will be signed here today. Cpls. Rist, Childs
and Ostlieb in hospital. Cpl. Freese sick. Sgt.
Kaplan missing three days now, overdue in
returning from the front where he has gone to
observe. The men are spreading a rumor that
we will go with Pershing to Italy. They were
very unwilling and mutinous on way here.
Protest against little rest given them. Heavy
packs tire them. All equipment with them,
overcoats in pack too. No use hanging around
company. We are not needed. Go back
through path in woods. Meet Lt. and follow
him for a while, but he sends us back, having
nothing for us to do. Lie down on blankets
outside of tent and fall asleep in hot sun
thinking of past Decoration Days spent with
Leah. Awakened by Mess Call. A bomb-shell
in camp. Lt. Kidde brings a memorandum
containing very bad news. School will be
discontinued after tomorrow. We will go back
to billets with Company. It will kill us to carry
a pack after nine days’ rest. From happiness to
gloom, a sudden transition. Appetite for a
good dinner of stew, tack and coffee, lost.
Nobody goes for seconds. Feed a few visitors
instead. Our English porter not in sight.
Telephone wires being strung across pasture
north to south. No work. Lt. ascertains that we
cannot get a regular bath, so we all get a
bucket of water at farmhouse. Boys bathe in
the open as well as possible under the
circumstances. Scots manoeuvering to-day.
All are jealous and express admiration for our
tents. Go up to company to sign payroll. We
find them digging a CT, sweating and
swearing. We crow. Deem it wise not to stay
after ascertaining that payroll has not yet been
brought up. Lt. in charge of Company goes off  into woods. We follow him and inquire when
we may expect to sign roll. Tonight at 6:00.
Back in tent. Write a ten page letter to Leah
without interruption, except to look at
skirmishes in air. Many observation balloons
are up. Supper a howling success. More than
we can eat. Using up surplus rations. Rice, two
helpings, 3 if wanted, cheese, bread, dates,
coffee. Englishman comes. Feed him too. He
is saddened by news that we move. Go up to
company again. Payroll not yet come. Meet
boys. Talk to them. Tenting north of lines.
Buy chocolate from them which has advanced
in price from 1 Fr. in morning to 1 1/2 now.
So we force up prices where ever we go.
Excuse offered by canteens, we get good pay.
Wait until eight. Decide to go back. Almost to
entrance to pasture. Meet Corporal Haight on
bicycle with payroll. Go back after directing
him to Company Camp. He has been looking
for us for an hour. See first fish life since I am
in France in a pool by roadside. Frogs,
tadpoles, minnows. Shells whistling overhead.
Not causing much damage where they strike.
Sign payroll as 1st Class Pvt. Back to camp.
Write until too dark to see. Go to bed in
comparative quiet. Air is deserted. Talk to
Gillece for a long time until I remind him he
must go on guard soon. Sleep well until 2.
Awakened by Gillece to do guard duty until 4.
Have a sandwich of cheese and bread left from
supper. Ask if anything of importance has
occurred. It has been very quiet. Day just
breaking at 2:30. A signal for activity on part
of Fritz. He sends five pills over to road. He is
a most perseverent devil intent on hitting his
objective. Rather difficult from distance
estimated at 12 miles to strike such a small
target. I lie in tent for half an hour before
going on duty. Get some dates. Make a few
rounds of post. Stir up campfire to get a coal
to light my pipe with. Go back to tent. I hear a
German airman over us. Wait for our guns to
open fire on him. He is not discovered. I
remain in tent until he drops three bombs to
east of Farm House. Goes west and drops
another somewhere near our Company Camp.
Gets away without a shot being fired at him.
Daylight now. Make a good fire. Wake
Conway to relieve me. Finish my pipe. Go to
sleep. Wade has been to town in forenoon to
deliver mail. As he gets to road, a shell bursts
near him. Throws up a column of earth, 25
feet into air. Spatters a nearby working party
with mud. He falls off bicycle into wheat in
field. Nothing done by way of damage. Wade
none the worse for his experience. Says he
laughed so hard at other men that he fell off
cycle. We all dread tomorrow. In the early
evening, I pick up another fragment from
bomb dropped behind our camp. 10x3x1/2
inches. A cruel death-dealing missile. Days
and boys milk cows in the pasture to obtain
milk for our rice. A threatened thrashing from
the farmer the result.