Author: Thomas James Richards.
Date: 23rd March 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

March 23rd.  Friday. Morning Parade:-- "Attack of a Wood."  "Practice." Afternoon Parade:-- Trench Releifs, lecture Major Harris. Musketry 100 yds. range. 1700 Lecture "Construction of Trenches" by Major Harris. After dinner lecture "Night Operations" by officers. On the morning parade we marched out about 2 miles, formed up into an attacking formation and went through the thick undergrowth with a section of Riflemen in line, a section of Riflebombers in single file near the left flank Bombers in single file near the right flank and a Lewis Gun section in line on the extreme right 10 yards behind the front line. The object of the whole scheme was to maintain direction throughout. This was easily done by keeping the sun on the right shoulder. There were several     x in the Wood which we came up against on an angle. There being two way of crossing it to avoid machine gun fire. One was keep our direction and cross over x Rides? at the double one after the other. The other way was to stop on the edge form up in line and all go over together. We tried both methods and found that by all jumping across together there was a small target which no rifleman could fire on quickly enough. On the other hand, by going across one at a time there was a considerable amount of warning given and a rifle could have infliceted many casualities while a machine gun would have created havoc. "Trench Reliefs." Carefull organisation of reliefes is very necessary. To get it over quickly cheers the men and shows them that their leaders can be relied upon. Men waiting about to releive become fatigued and irritable. Here is the difference between a good releif and a bad one. By 9 o'clock a good releif is completed and everybody settled down comfortably. One Battalion I know (Major Harris) came along in the afternoon to look about but thought it was quite unessarary to bother about plans and sketches as the Coy. was well disciplined and could be drawn up in a few moments. The result was that we had not completed the relief by 2 o'clock in the morning. A system must be set down to the most minute detail. 24 hours before the releif takes place the advance party consisting of N.O.O.S. and guides with one or two officers should be there to find out all about the trenches and to take over the Trench Stores. One must be extremely cautious in taking over Stores and see that nothing in missed. One officer in taking a list put down "61 boots rubber," well it took weeks to straighten out whether it was 61 pairs or 61 boots. Officer in charge of Party must make a sketch of the trenches showing the different posts and communication way, accompanyed by a full report. Give complete details of working parties and any especial work in hand. The guides will make themselves accaquainted with each of the flank Companys and investigate the communication and tracks of carrying and ration parties. Officer will visit 
- 33 - personally every portion of the trench advance posts etc. Find out all about water supply rations and cooking arrangements. In marching by night to the trenches the pace should never be more that 1½ miles an hour and the head of Coy. But make the pace contineous dont stop at all. No halts. On completing the releif Coy. commanders should report it at once to Battalion. The Coy. holding the front line are responsible for the maintenance of the trenches and should be keeping them alway in good repair.
"Construction of Trenches."  Major Harris. Sighting, laying off of trenches must be done lying down. In trench digging the earth must be thrown well away at the commencement so as not to have the bank blocked up as the trench deepens. In hurridly laying out trenches place a man every 5 yards lying down to form the line of the trench and then each man having his task starts on the left hand corner and the work will be completed in a remarkable short space of time. In the shooting this afternoon I got a much better target than I expected. There were very few really good targets which surprised me at 100 yards range. In trench digging each men for the first hour should remove 30 cubic feet.  2nd. hour 15 cb. ft.  3rd. hour 10 cb. ft. Hand drawn diagram - see original document Narrow trenches are a grave danger in burying men. 