Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 7 March 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Thu. Mar. 7, 1918
Weather: snowing, mild Health: good
Up at 6:00. Reveille. Do not fall out. Breakfast, 2 eggs, butter, oatmeal and coffee. Finish quickly. Get to work immediately on fires. All very low. One latrine has to be rekindled. Work industriously and soon manage to find an hour for myself in which to read newspaper. Captain is irascible. Expects me to have red hot fire in less time than it takes him to tell me about it. As I go through barracks it strikes me as having a great resemblance to hospital. There are about 20 men sick or feigning sickness. Of latter most are corporals or sergeants. The weather is the factor largely instrumental in bring about sickness of non-coms. They are always ill when it rains or snows. It does not interfere with my work. I am glad to be constantly occupied. Downdraft gives me some difficulty especially in connection with Colonels’ fire. I must rebuild both fires. Meet Corporal Easterly in Colonel’s quarters. Speak to Captain about granting me a stay. He pays more attention to papers before him than he does to me. Tells me he cannot do anything. Refers me to Lieut. MacDougall. Talk to him later on. I’m told that if I want to take up the matter further with the authorities, I should get busy with my pen. It is necessary to produce evidence showing that Leah is ill. As she is not and I hope never is I will not do that and decide to let the matter drop. A momentous decision. Tags are being stenciled for placing on barracks bag as identification prior to early forwarding of these bags to whatever our destination will be when we leave camp. Weather now clear. Dinner, pork and beans, soup, coffee. Work an hour, read a little, make a new fire at Colonel’s. He comes in, in great hurry, and begins shaving. First time I have seen him in quarters. I speak to him. Just a complaint about poor draft today offered apologetically. His reply means do not bother me. Everybody in the Company goes to the infirmary to be inoculated with anti- pneumonia germs in an effort to check disease in our company. Short arm inspection given while there. Men who were sick and confined to quarters isolated in prophylaxis room are given special examination and treatment. I get mine early, receiving preference, I observe, since I am fireman. Rush sounds of fire once more. Supper, chili con carne, peaches, coffee. Write to Leah and Mama. Two letters from Leah. Water has been shut off in camp for 5 hours. Cannot wash mess kits or flush toilet bowls. A dangerous condition. Make bed and go with Goldsoll to PE for something to quench my thirst. See Aurora Borealis, a pale greenish blue light in long narrow shafts in Eastern sky. To Post Office to mail letter to Leah. In quarters. Wash mess kit before I get to bed at 10:00. Too tired mentally to do more than lie down. The world seems hard to me. Sleep well.
