Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 4 August 1918.

Nationality: Australian

Text: 

Sun. Aug. 4, 1918
Weather: Showers, Warm
Health: Good
Hike 8 kilometres to ........
Wake up at 11. Dress without my drawers,
which I will wash and trust to luck that they
will dry enough to wear by the time we leave.
Go for dinner. Steak, potatoes, onions, bread,
Karo, coffee. The leanest woman I ever saw
hangs around the kitchen with two children.
The kiddies are given hard tack and bread and
the woman gets a pot of coffee, some meat
259and a can of grease, not quite empty. She is
tickled beyond description. Sends one of the
youngsters down with things as fast as she
gets them, with orders to come back at once.
They each make many trips. Other street
urchins get bread and what the men leave,
being specially pleased with the Karo. About a
mile of street in the town, with houses on both
sides, a pretentious church, a smaller shrine in
the center of the village, a butcher and baker,
and a few other stores. Plenty of water and
fruit. Plums, nuts, apples and pears. Make a
discovery in the shape of a large, seedless,
yellow apple, which is only fruit ripe enough
to eat. Even they are still tart. See Del Duca on
the street with a hat full of eggs. We tease
him. He makes as if to throw an egg at us. I
dare him to. He closes in on me and I go
towards him ready to catch it, thinking he
means to be friendly and throw it so that I can
get it. It proves otherwise though. He throws
the egg with force, intent upon having it splash
on my clothes. I turn around, trying to avoid it
and it breaks on my back and splashes all over
my shirt, so I am out of luck again. I must got
a knife and scrape it and hang the shirt to dry.
Disregarding orders, I go to the pump to wash
with only breeches and undershirt on. I wash
my drawers, too. My bottom shows through
two great big holes in my pants. Any place but
in France I would have been ashamed. There
are many women and some pretty girls, who
do not mind me in the least. They are neater
than the average village girl I have seen. This
is a clean town on the whole. Of course there
is lots of manure in piles in front of the
houses, but the street is clean. Hang my things
to dry and look for fruit again. I am still stiff
and sore from the night's hike and a trifle
sleepy, so I lie down for a nap until 3:30. I am
awakened by Himpler, who wants to get his
things together to roll his pack. Himpler has
orders to go to ........ on the billeting detail.
When he tells me what our probable
destination is, I am surprised that the hike is so
short. Get out the map and try to dope out
where we will entrain and what our probable
destination is. It appears to me, logically, we
go to ........ . An old woman is interested in the
map reading. Supper is ready. Beans and beef
stew, Karo, bread, coffee. When half finished
with supper, it begins to rain. I hurriedly finish
my supper, while two Frenchwomen who have
evidently seen my wedding ring discuss me. I
listen without letting on that I understand. I
smile to myself and think of their surprise if
they saw the bottom of my pants. I remember
that my drawers are spread on a wood pile to
dry and hurry like the devil down street to my
billet. Halfway there I am so wet and likewise
my drawers, that it is useless to go further.
Take shelter until the shower is over. Get my
drawers and wring the water from them.
Possibly they will dry in the two hours that are
left before we move. The sun is hot. Wash my
feet. A job that I have saved for the last
minute. Roll my pack, ready to put on my
hump. A bit of time left for writing. I sit on a
box. My hand is unsteady. Go upstairs to write
on window sill. That does not work well,
either. Downstairs again. After ten minutes, I
want to give it up as a bad job. Put up my pen.
Change my mind. Rather than be idle, I will
try again. It works fairly well after my
resolution is made and up to the time I am
ordered to fall in, I almost finish the page. My
drawers are not dry, so it is necessary to go
without them. Roll them wet into my slicker,
which goes over the pack. Fall in outside.
There is a rainbow again, not near as fine as
Friday's. Farrell and Ernst show up, ready to
march with us. They are looked upon with
anger by the sergeants. Black and his gang
come up at the last minute. They have been
licking up beer and are feeling fine. All
present, we are the first ones off. March down
the street amid the cheers of the other men.
We give one cheer for those whom we do not
260like. Capt. McMurtry passes. We have the
satisfaction of making him smile. Black is
singing a new song, composed in the
estaminet, a parody on "If he can love". It
draws applause. Uphill over the bridge to the
point where the head of the column should be.
We are on the crest again, looking down on
wheat and rye, uncut, potatoes and truck.
Stacks of cut grain, orchard and streams to the
foot of the hill at our left. Fall out to wait,
while Black gives his cabaret in the hearing of
G Co. Much applause. Farrell and Maloy are
mellow and begin cheering everybody, both
styles, until they are hoarse. Maloy grows
familiar with the adjutant. We are all feeling
good, because the hike is so short. The
destination of the army for the night is known
to everybody now. A good level road, or down
hill. Cheering individuals now. G Co. sings
songs. Greenwald is cheered with a hurrah,
and a verse of the song is composed for him,
which went "if he can hike like he can write".
Of course the diary is mentioned. We hike
steadily without a stop and go through the
town of ........ in the dusk. The dung piles are
small, denoting poverty, according to the boys.
It is a full hour before we are permitted to fall
out. The 3rd Battalion is in the town. They are
out to watch us go by. We deride them, calling
them grease balls and they return the
compliment. The singing and cheering have
helped wonderfully to keep the men in lines.
For my part, I would just as soon have gone on
to the end of the trip to ......... , the church
spires of which can just be seen in the fast
failing light. It is a fine night, the stars promise
to come out in their brightest dress. It is cool.
The grass upon which we lie is wet, too wet
for me to sit on. I am bare below, so I lie on
my side. In fifteen minutes we are under way
again. Down hill, to the foot of the hill upon
which the town is built. It is a hard climb up,
but we get up without much discomfort
because we are so fresh. It smells like hell of
barns and dung. We are billeted quickly. The
scouts are split up this time in different billets.
Five of us in a barn with a floor full of holes.
There is plenty of good straw. Through the
floor, when the candles are lit, can be seen
cows and pigs, The officers' horses are put in
the stalls below, too. They snort and stomp
below, which makes it all the more uncertain
that I get a good night's sleep. It smells too
much for me to understand why the other
fellows think it a good place to sleep. I sleep
alone tonight. Would like to take my breeches
off but my drawers are still wet. The
companies are being made to wait a long time
before they are billeted. There is noise in the
streets up till the time I go to sleep. Go to bed
at once and sleep for two hours, when the
noise of the animals wakes me. There is a dog
in the loft with us, which barks in the night
and wakes me again. All day not the sound of
a gun, rifle or aeroplane. An ideal quiet
Sunday. I find my French improving
somewhat. I can understand fairly well if it is
spoken slowly. With what little I can talk and
gesture, I can now make myself understood.
We travel with an interpreter in this march. He
and the YMCA man are attached to this
battalion. They are traveling without packs,
yet they have blistered feet and stiff limbs.
That kind of makes the men feel proud that
they are no worse though they carry a heavy
pack. Hamilton very sick, apparently from
eating green apples. He vomits and has
diarrhea. The infirmary busy fixing up sore
feet.