Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 5 June 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:


Wed. Jun. 5, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
A year ago today we registered. How
time does fly!
Up at 6:00. Hurry to get breakfast. Our meals
until further notice will be excellent,
supplemented by what Co. has bought. Bacon,
potato, jam, bread, coffee. Wash, after which I
report to Battalion Hdqrs. at once. Work on
correction in E. Co.'s payrolls until Lt. comes.
He has been requested to make other changes,
which he tells me of. I am kept busy making
them until 11:00 o'clock. I am again told that
perhaps I will be taken to work in new Bureau.
Many officers, including the Colonel, have
been in this morning, and all of them have
discussed the best piece of news we have
heard since we have been in France. We have
been rejected by the British and go South,
probably to an American Base. Our English
rifles, ammunition and machine guns will be
turned in and exchanged for the material we
brought over with us. Captain takes men to
......... where an American YMCA has come
up, to make whatever purchases of cigarettes,
candy and crackers, etc. they need and tells
them the good news. He has them gather in a
circle for the purpose. Their cheers could be
heard from where I was. An entirely different
spirit in the army this morning. Cheering at
intervals all day. Everybody is given the
afternoon off to do their washing, shave, etc.
When everybody leaves the office to take
payrolls to paymaster, Sgt. Newton and I stay
for a few minutes talking of the Lt. He asks
me would I like to work for him. I would very
much like to. We go out together. I buy some
chocolate and in conversation I tell him I
would like to take a bath this afternoon. He
offers to give me a bicycle. Thank him and go
to quarters. To my surprise the whole
company is in billets. They are resting. A
YMCA wagon is in front of orderly room
door, selling American cigarettes, cigars, nuts,
crackers, chocolate, etc. They do a land office
business. Prices are reasonable. Office lends 5
Frs. to any man who wished it, till payday. I
buy 4 bars of chocolate for 3 Frs., which is 1/2
the price we pay to French in village and 10
times as good in quality. All our plans must be
changed. I cannot do my washing, as all the
cans are taken. I must wait. Lie down until
mess. A reminder of our Camp Upton meals.
Beef stew, dried apricots, cocoa. Another plate
of stew. Belly full and glad we go with our
own men. A feeling of contentment. Find a
bucket, heat water, boil clothes, wash and
hang to dry. Duty to myself fulfilled, I pay my debt to Leah and write her a letter of 6 pages,
in good vein, I am pleased to think.
Inconvenient writing in prone position, I grow
very tired. Written while on my back,
stomach, side and a few minutes while sitting.
It takes me a long time, well up to supper.
Another surprise for us. Corned beef and new
cabbage, cheese, jam, coffee. I get a heaping
plate of bully and cabbage and I can barely put
it all away. I have a heavy stomach the
remainder of the night. Go back to my writing
until I finish. Write until 8. Fix up my tent,
which was partly taken down to give contents
an airing, make my bed and go to Batt. Hdqrs.
to mail it. Mail not being taken in orderly
room. Get a few more envelopes from mail
clerk, quite a privilege. I forget to mention that
immediately after supper at 6 o'clock, I go to
.......... for a bath. Falkowski, our company in
charge, gives us lots of water and, detail being
small, we take unlimited time. A most
refreshed young man for the rest of the day,
cool and clean. Entire company to have gone,
but most of men are out celebrating in lieu of
changing their surroundings. Others took
advantage of the afternoon hours to go there,
without an order, being permitted to bathe by
Corp. On the way, I see a stream, such a rare
occurrence that it is worthy of note. Shell hole
near baths seen. This is one which was
corporal Hamilton's nemesis, explosion of
shell wounding him. A beautiful village as
seen from the road surrounded by trees and
nestling on a hilltop. Go back at our ease with
Kronenberg. After mailing my letter, I lie
down to rest without undressing and almost
fall asleep. Decide to undress and go to bed at
10 o'clock. Restless for a long time. After 3
sleep soundly. During the day there has not
been much activity but at night the combatants
get busy. In jest we say, Fritz is aware of our
leaving and is giving as a proper send-off. It is
quite as fierce a battle as any we have ever
heard. In the air we are quite certain that Fritz
has a number of his airmen up on the job. Our
men are vigilant. Patrol the air until late at
night. Boys getting very careless, showing
lights from their tents during night, after dark.
They write by candlelight and light matches
for their pipes and cigarettes without any
attempts at concealment. The Englishmen in
town are not very much pleased that we are
leaving. So much more that they will have to
do when the time comes for fighting hard. For
our part, we are glad that we were not called
upon to assist them. While I was finishing
letter to Leah shots were heard at short
intervals, which I am certain mark the passage
of a chicken at each report. My conclusion
proves correct when a lad comes with a story
of how he was beaten when he protested and
informed when the hen was shot. He is
ridiculed by the boys for not having returned
the blows he received. Men from schools
come back during the afternoon and report that
the English are probably preparing to retreat.
They are strengthening position at the farm.
Cutting down hedges and trees and preparing
for attack. One story has it that we hike for
three days when we move. I believe Sweet has
been given job at Personnel Bureau in place of
me.