Author: Thomas James Richards.
Date: 21st November 1916.
Nationality: Australian.

November 21st.  Tuesday. The mist, which was very thick, lifted towards the afternoon, and having absolutely nothing to do, I set about making a larger house around the shafts of the farrier's cart with some blankets and canvas covers, and so, tonight I have a camp bed to sleep on and a higher roof overhead. Sgt. Winzar sleeps on a stretcher on the other side. This afternoon I took a hack out for exercise. At 2 p.m. we struck out across country for the Amiens-Albert Road. The turf was a little heavy but old Tom was in glorious form and took his several jumps over some mounds of earth and across a series of emergency trenches. A Frenchman with a pair of handsome horses was busy breaking up a long strip of ground with the commonly used reversable one way, double moulboard plough, which allowed him to work up and down on the same furrow. He handled his horses to perfection by word of mouth and a single rein. It was a charming picture to watch those heavy, arched and thick necked chestnut horses clinking at their curb bits and moving steadily and stately along a perfectly straight line. They moved along as evenly and as quietly as a pair of Lemnos Island oxen. The driver, an elderly man, was at ease and unworried by his labours. His garb was typical of the Picardy farmer, corduroy trousers, many - 20 - seasons old and still in good repair; a short waisted jumper also of corduroy but of a different tint to the pants due to the latter being sun bleached in the summer months; a red coloured neckerchief was jammed in around the jumper collar while a weather worn plush cap without peak or brim fitted well down all round his head, and his boots had long uppers and substantial soles. In the grey light of the dull day the whole effect of this simple ploughing scene was a treasure, greatly added to by the five black crows that hopped noisily along the furrows picking up worms and taking but little interest in anything around about as they gambolled  enthusiastically along. Away ahead and to my left were whole ranges of attic roofs fitted on to the ground, in which troops rested over night en route, or rested for a few days back from the firing line. On ahead about 300 yards were some 30 large motor cars standing around and a repair shop nearby. In the distance and on the hill sides, opened to my view by the undulating country, were hundreds of bell tents and large marquees, while in three different directions, standing up on the sky line like huge mushrooms, were aerodromes or aeroplane sheds. The main road could be followed for miles and miles by the double line of tall trees that marked its course. On moving on to the top of a hill I disturbed a fine big hare. It got up and jumped away with its short white tail bobbing and its light brown body bounding with remarkable pace and ease. I tried to gallop after it. Tom was keen too and tried his best, but too many years have passed over the brave old horse's head to enable him to follow it. My shouts and calls though kept that hare, and also the other one that got up a few minutes afterwards, running for half a mile or more. - 21 - There were also several small flocks of quail peacefully moving about. They were much larger than the Australian quail. Two kinds of crows were in flocks also. Besides the cunning black crow that we know so well, there was another one with a black face, wings and tail but a lightish brown or grey body. He stood as big or perhaps a little bigger than his black cousin and was equally as flippant. I was as yet no more than 1½ miles from camp when I ran out on to the main road. I would have chosen to stay out on the fields instead of going on to the hard road, but there came across my open track a line of barb-wire stretching for miles with breaks for roads and paths only. These emergency defences are interwoven and twisted, pegged with sticks or posts 3 feet above ground. For miles behind our own line in every direction are these stretches of wire entanglements, also redoubts and trenches. Along the road to Albert, 2½ miles, there were German prisoners at work. They seemed quite jolly and gazed curiously about at all that is going on, and seemed to pay me special attention. I thought it rather a laughable touch to see the Germans putting up a heavy barb-wire compound or "bird cage" as they are called, for their own confinement and security. There seemed to be but little alteration in Albert since I was last there in August, other than that there were a number of stores opened in the old shambled buildings. The streets were crowded with traffic of all kinds, and the traffic men were at their wits end to keep the lines moving. Albert is on the Ancre River yet one would never know, in fact I have been through Albert several times and could not see the river. Today I first saw it running through underneath the back portion of the ruined church, (a fine church - 22 - at one time, built of red bricks with stone corners and blocking and with a very tall tower; the Virgin and Child still hanging right over on to the street). The style of church is just like many English churches. The square tower though shaken and battered could still be used as an observation post. Anyhow the river ran under the church and was used just outside to drive a water-wheel, and ran on through the town between narrow brick walls and built over most of the time. From Albert I turned and came through Dernacourt to Buire to camp. On the road I passed hundreds of Germans road making and unloading goods trains. Passing a large depot I got quite an eye-opener as to the quantities and different kinds of stores that have to be stocked to keep an army going, timber of all lengths and sizes in piles covering acres of ground, corrugated iron in bundles to make natty half round houses of up behind the line, and a heavy large corrugated kind to roof over dugouts and to stand the pressure of earth and sand bags on top; timber from feather weight scantlings to long lengths of sawn hardwood 18 inches square, and steel rails and trucks of all sizes. It was a most impressive collection of piles and piles and stacks upon stacks of one thing and another, and the only name its got officially is "Dernacourt Dump". Up in the area captured from the Germans there are a whole lot of roads and tracks recently formed. To the crossings are some of the best known English names applied such as Picardilly Circus, Oxford Circus, Swansea Circus, Bloomsbury Road, and Regent Street, etc. etc. A crossing in Longueval was known as Longueval Circus. Old Tom seemed to be slowing down and putting up a joke on me as I had neither whip or spur and he is a cunning horse, but to his dismay, and thereafter his great concern, he stepped out in great style. - 23 - We passed a newly laid double railway track, and had a good view of the valley in which the Ancre River runs over a considerable length. The course of the river was made plain by the tall and leafless trees that grow in the somewhat marshy country near its banks. Here and in Belgium the land is always made use of for growing timber when unsuitable  for cultivation on account of marsh. Along the road for home there were Germans digging deep holes some 10 feet square along the road side so as to drain the water off in wet weather. There are some thousands of these holes on this "Big Push" area, and they answer very well up to a certain point. On reaching camp it was nearly dark and yet just turned 4 o'clock. It was a great afternoon's ride and I was thankful for being alone as there was only myself to please, and my mind was not drawn away to other topics and sights than those I wanted to see and to follow. I might have looked lonely but I was nevertheless in my element. At night, or rather after tea, I thought of my fruitless attempts at writing for the past few days and decided to stroll up and see the picture show. After some trouble in locating the building, there being no outward indication of its whereabouts, I found it made of empty ammunition boxes and lined, also roofed with a tar-fabric composition. There were 20 long narrow forms packed closely together, and some of them were evidently made for another purpose as bomb cases were used to make them long enough for their present need. 16 men sat at each form, and as I was late and having paid 2d entrance fee, stood against the wall and enjoyed the three films I saw. The crowd was in good humour and enjoyed the show also, even if they did laugh aloud when the hero was again and again rescued from impossible positions. I was compelled to put my light out at 10 p.m. or I would have read. - 24 -