Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 28 May 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:


Tue. May 28, 1918
Weather: Fair, Mild
Health: Good
Up at 5:30. Guard tells of hole made by bomb
during last night's raid about 200 yds. back of
last tent. Boys go up to inspect it and come
back with souvenirs of steel fragments from it.
I must shave and have no time to go up.
Shave, wash, police. Breakfast. Bully beef,
hashed, bread, coffee. Clean gun for a few
minutes. Fritz disturbs our meal again by
sending a few shells over. He seems to have
shortened range. They sound nearer. Out early
to meet company which has camped out
overnight. We are to act as guides for them
and lead them into trenches again for
observation. On arrival we find camp already
broken. They have made up their packs and
are ready to move. I assume an attitude of
importance. Greet boys. Ask them how they
spent night. They all confess to having slept
well. I am surprised. Attribute it to fact that
they were very tired from day's hiking and
activity at night, inspection of positions.
Company starts. I lead 1st platoon into their
position. I do not know anything of its
location. I ask Maloy who was with them last.
I try not to display my ignorance. Lts. and Sgt.
assign to corporals responsibility for making
various improvements on existing system by
cutting new CT and establishing snipers and
OP latrines, dugouts and other things
necessary for comfort in trenches. I offer my
suggestions and point out points of importance
in their sector to Sgt. He takes little notice of
me and goes on with his own plans. Nothing
for me to do but to sit down and rest from my
arduous labors. Shells are still coming over at
ten minute intervals. Being in the open I
cannot see where they strike. Observe effect
through my glasses. Raise a great cloud of
dust or smoke where they hit. Distance from
us greater than I suspected. Watch air battles
directly over front line through glasses. Lt.
steals upon me unawares. Says good morning
and looks as though he expects me to be busy
as a bee. I immediately make apologies for my
lack of work. At 9:45 company is ready to
leave trenches. I follow without knowledge of
what is to follow. Still I cannot find anything
to do. We merely walk at head of column and
look wise. Officers know way as well as we.
Company rests until ten. So do we. Company
leaves. We remain. No orders for us. Our Lts.
not about. Find a canteen. Buy chocolate.
Strike for home in a roundabout way at a slow
pace. Back at ll. Rest until dinner time. Lt.
informs us we bathe at 4. Do not go out. 2nd
Lt., a Sgt., a Corp., and a Pvt. are ordered to
Brigade Hdqrs. I help Lt. pack up. Mess.
Steak, onions, boiled potatoes, bread, coffee.
Excellent. 1st Lt. goes to town, leaving
corporal in charge. I write all afternoon. A
letter to Bertha, Dolly, Ma and Pa Block,
Leah. At 4 we assemble and march to 1st
Battalion Scouts quarters to join them. They
are not ready to go. Wait until 5 picking 4 leaf
clovers in the meantime. Find one and lose it
later. Lt. comes up. I was lying down and did
not notice he was an officer. Speak to him as I
would to a private. Nothing said. I am
ashamed of conduct. Column moves off. Fritz
sends a few pills that sound nearer still. We
take a road different from one which leads to
baths I noticed on Sunday, about which I
informed Lt. On the road I hear whistle of
shell. Unconsciously duck my head as if that
would save me from hurt if it strikes near. See
a few old holes. Observation planes and
balloons up. Baths are in English camp at
........ . Same as those near our old billet.
Disappointed. Meet Kronenberg in town. Bath
attendant knows nothing of arrangements to
have us bathe. No orders. We may wait till
seven if we wish or come back to-morrow.
Decide to come back to-morrow. Boys stay in
town a bit to see if drink can be obtained. I go back to camp alone after I give Gillece the
bottle of wine I owe. Tired from the tramp by
the time I get back. The band is playing in a
field for a Co. of Tommies who go up the line.
Play for an hour or more. I get my supper.
Bread, cheese, jam, coffee. Write until 8:30.
Make bed, hand my letters to Lt. for
censoring. He has just come back. Tells us of
damage done by shelling on road and numbers
of casualties. Warns us to keep away. I go up
to examine hole made by bomb. Look for
scrap. A hole 2 ft. deep and 6 ft. wide, earth
thrown up all around it. Go to bed at dark.
Talk for a while with Gillece. I am very
sleepy. Expect to get a good night’s sleep
because it is quiet. Doomed to be disturbed
once more. A party of our men at school
getting instructions in sending up flares and
wiring at night. Noise and bright light keep me
awake. It also attracts German airmen almost
immediately. Excited commands to stop
sending up flares but too late. Enemy over us.
A prolonged battle to drive them away,
shelling him from wood behind us sounds
almost in my ear. A few reports from the line.
I can kiss my night‘s rest goodbye, I think. But
I am so tired I fall asleep in spite of it all.
Sleep better than at any time since arrival.
Turn over two or three times during night to
find comfort and keep warm but doze off
again. A company of Scots have been at a
sham battle in woods, bushes and pasture all
day. They use a number of smoke bombs
which from distance where we were this
morning appear to be gas shells. We carry
masks at alert, ready for any emergency. Feel
a sense of comfort after I write to Mother-in-
law and sisters. An obligation I owe them for
their kindness to Leah. On the whole the day's
martial activity has been negligible. Very
quiet. An unusually easy day as far as work is
concerned too. I prefer school to drill.