Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 12 July 1918.

Nationality: Australian

Text:


Fri. Jul. 12, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Fair
Up at 7:00. Expect another dull, uninteresting
day. Determined to get to Hdqrs. of Capt. F,
with a tale of sickness and after go to ........ in
search of some eggs and other things which I
might eat. Have my breakfast. Toast, coffee.
Wash, tidy and police up in quarters. Without
a blouse, weather is so nice, go to Hdqrs. Capt.
is asleep. 1st Sgt. is asleep. I am not going to
disturb their slumbers, if I can help it. Ask Sgt.
to tell either of them, at first opportunity, that I
have called and reported sick. Return to
quarters to get password from one of the men.
I have it. Promise to come back with matches.
Walk down the road feeling like a very happy
and free person. It is delightful to feel the cool
breeze blow against my forehead. My steel hat
is off for comfort and my front collar button is
open to let breeze play against my chest. Pine
breath from the limbs on the camouflage
screen by the road is more pleasant than
perfume. Keep to the left in the shade. Walk
slowly. I feel superior to other men of
216company. Perhaps they are working. I am
resting and my time is my own. As free as my
fancy. Walk jauntily as the spirit of my
journey grips me. Bid good morning to those I
meet on the road if they are worthy looking
individuals. Guard does not halt me. He is
polishing his bayonet. I tell him it is not
necessary. I know the word and he lets me go
by. In the YMCA no crackers. I am
disappointed. Get chocolate, a newspaper, a
can of pears, after which it occurs to me that I
would like some matches. Then I see tobacco.
I need that, and last, perhaps chewing gum
will quench my thirst. I may need it for
tomorrow. I have just learned today is Friday.
Wrap my purchases in newspaper, which I
forget and leave behind at first. Then go where
I know Epicerie was, to buy some eggs. To my
surprise the place looks deserted and upon
inquiry I find that it is. All the civilians have
been ordered out by the 14th and most of them
have complied with the order. A few old
women left. It must be very hard for them to
tear themselves away from their homes, which
they have loved for so many years. No use
bemoaning the past, and I can spend my time
to better advantage writing than chatting on
about causes. I start back to quarters. I feel as
though I have forgotten something. Yes, I
have. Envelopes. I asked for them too and
went away without them. Take 1 dozen, make
up a new bundle and start off again. At the
door I stop again. Something missing. Pears
left behind. Now I have everything. Off once
more. In the east end of town, it sounds like
shelling was being done by Fritz. It is difficult
to locate. Observers differ as to objective.
Both sides of the road at the end of town are
being hit. Dangerous traveling on road. I wait
for a few minutes in the sentry box at town
gate, from where I can get a good view of
where the next shell strikes. It lands on the
other side of the road from where we saw the
last one land. Doubtful what he is after, also
how to avoid him. The Colonel passes in a car.
He goes on without hesitation. Gives me
courage to go on. Before I make the next
village another shell bursts. I duck my head as
though that would save me from injury.
Frenchmen staying close to stone barn for
protection. As soon as I make it, I follow their
example, while two more burst nearby, one
ahead of us, one behind us. I think it is the
puffy, gusty wind that is responsible for such a
widely scattered group of hits. Two
Frenchmen come up. They think it is safe to
go on, after questioning. I follow them. We
run to next shelter while Fritz reloads, single
file, keeping in the shade. Rest in a doorway
where is another lad who came from opposite
direction. Two officers stop to read my
newspaper. While waiting there, one strikes so
close that I feel a slight shock and a half
minute later a piece of shrapnel comes
breaking through the trees, landing not 15 yds.
from us. One Frenchman in the building has
business in ........ He starts immediately after
last explosion. I follow him. He runs. I do
likewise. Aeroplanes up to check. One battery
is retaliating. I hear the whistle of shells over
us. Pace is too fast for me. I must walk.
Decide to throw myself flat on the ground if I
hear shell coming. I will have to listen
carefully for them. I am making a noise, the
wind is rustling the leaves of the trees. Our
shells are flying. A little rested, I run again.
Frenchman way ahead of me. Roofs of town in
sight now. A most welcome sight. I am fooled
once by our own shell. I crouch for protection
against a low stone wall. Then I am safe at
last. In the open, walk up to kitchen, panting
for breath and very hot. Distribute what I
bought among the men. My clothes all open to
cool off. Tell them how cruel Fritz has been to
me. He keeps it up. Our guns breaking up
things on Fritz's side of the line. Lts., Sgts.,
and two French scouts, who were out on patrol
(reconnaissance), are back with trophies. A
217Prussian Guard's cap with a bloodstain on it.
Frenchman has many decorations. Lt. is
nervous. We must all stay indoors while
aeroplanes are up, yet he himself runs around.
This morning his party was shot at by snipers.
I make my own cocoa for dinner. Have a piece
of good roast meat, bread, dates, pears and
cocoa, a big dinner, which leaves no ill effects.
The afternoon I devote to writing. First thing I
do is to tear up letters I wrote yesterday and
rewrite them. Morris Berger's, Morris’ and
Annette's. My how the French gunners are
pelting Fritz today! The sky is full of planes
and shells go over without cessation all day. It
does not disturb me. Nothing does until, to
break the monotony of things, one of the boys
starts making a jazz band of two drumsticks
on mess cup, on mess tin, on a chair. I must
stop. Read until supper is ready. I have a meat
ball, bread and cocoa. Upstairs to read. Corp.
Wager starts his jazz band working again. It is
the funniest thing I have ever seen. A stick
suspended on two chair backs, from which is
suspended an iron ring, a cup, two bags of
Bull Durham, why I do not know. It is good
sport to see him working at his band. It is good
music too. Boys help along by singing. They
have a fine quartet and good solo numbers.
The evening cannonading in full swing. I read
the NY Evening Journal and the Saturday
Evening Post until I grow tired. I do not want
to go to bed so early. I fall asleep nevertheless,
shoes on. Wake for a few minutes to remove
my shoes and from then on get a full quota of
sleep during the night. I have another dream
about the shop. This time Haff is mixed up in
it. He and I have the old Fulton Press in Luke
Street. It is slightly changed of course. There
is some disagreement about ownership. Funny
things occur like in the movies, animated
presses, self-setting type, etc. A patrol to go
out some time in the morning, the official
substitute for the large one scheduled for the
Battalion to pull out tonight. Frenchmen
advise caution, I believe. Much in praise of the
French scout who has citations for bravery
from 3 Generals and 1 Croix de Guerre. He is
envied but not by me. A blue devil with him,
really a dare devil. Growing tired of self-
confinement. My bottom hurts. But in spite of
it all, I would like to write more to Leah and
the boys about my experiences. If I could have
quiet and convenience, I might do something
worthwhile. I debate advisability of writing a
song as part of an entertainment for the Army,
when the jazz band intervenes.