Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 10 June 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:



Mon. Jun. 10, 1918
Weather: Raining, Mild
Health: Good
Up at 8:00. Find that men have stolen a bale of hay at a stop we have made while I was
asleep. Has my approval. Sufficient to make a
soft bedding for entire car. It begins to rain. I
lie down again for another hour's nap. Raining
heavily. To add to our discomfort, we find that
the roof of the car leaks like a sieve. Only way
to remedy it is to stretch our shelter halves
across top beams of car. Rain comes in, in
spite of all in some corners of car, especially
in mine. Tin helmet for a pillow. I am up again
at 9. Almost everyone else is, so we decide to
have breakfast. Bread, jam, cheese from last
night's supper ration. Wall and Devanny take a
swig of Jamaican rum, for an appetizer. It is
such strong stuff that, seasoned drinkers
though they are, it makes them squirm. These
are only men in our car who are drinking. Rest
are all sober. But in car next to ours every man
but one is lying dead drunk. No one awake
yet. Other cars have similar reports to make. I
remain awake. Pick a choice seat on car floor
by car door for observation. Feet dangle
outside. Airy and pleasant. Only complaint is
due to the rain. Somehow when we travel it
rains. Villages and towns of considerable size
along the road. Only one evidence of
destruction in a factory city of the first class.
Deserted, and most of the roofs caved in,
windows broken, walls down. Scenery a
constant source of surprise and wonder.
Streams and woods more plentiful. Wheat
grain fields less to be seen than garden truck
farms. Wild poppies everywhere. Hillsides
cultivated and laid out in fields which
resemble crazy quilts. Some remind me of
shaven poodle dogs with a tuft of trees to
relieve the smooth green of the lawns. Houses
more solid in construction. Brick has replaced
wood and plaster. Design much more modern.
A few army camps of British seen, but as we
go along they are more frequently occupied by
Frenchmen. Stop frequently for water at
stations. Coffee served from our cookers. Still
using highly chlorinated water. Warmth it
gives is welcome. Nothing prevents our men
from buying wine, even at 2 minute stops.
They manage to get some from stationmen or
by bribing children to run into town to get it
for them. Pay fabulous sums for the stuff. At
two, we stop at ......... for twenty minutes. We
are given coffee with rum at a French cooking
station. I give mine away. Run into town to
buy some chocolate. 1st Battalion has been
here ahead of us and has cleaned out the town.
Can get two raw eggs to supplement our
dinner of veal and hardtack. Buildings lack
care and paint on the outside. Shops beautiful,
neat and well-stocked. Much wine bought.
Caught in a heavy shower and before I can get
back to car I am well drenched. Train starts. A
wild scramble to get aboard in which some
men are nearly left. An opportunity to wash in
brook, which flows parallel to track. Move
slowly along through a rich countryside. Fruit
becomes evident. At sight of ripe cherries
boys go wild. Want to hop off train to pick
some. A stop made, where black coffee is
served from our cookers, another where we
get coffee, soup, army's water. Maloy still
asleep. Since after breakfast. He has not taken
any food since then. Admits he is not feeling
well, then protests he is all right. I fear he is
very ill. I feel his head. He has high
temperature. Tell company clerk to procure a
doctor. Get Maloy up and give him some pills.
Goes back to sleep again until next morning.
People along road wave a greeting to us, throw
us flowers and wish us good luck. Boys shout
and whistle all day. Supper. Bully beef, hard
tack, good coffee with rich milk at ......... .
Large French camp and aviation field at ..........
Rivers passed. Concrete ships being built at
one. Rain stops before sundown. Can see
.......... in the distance. A long stop at .......... to
change engines and switch to a track going
different direction. Given a great welcome
here. Frenchmen, here and all along route, beg
us to give them tobacco. None can be had in towns. Soldiers and well dressed citizens get
what little we can spare. Children and women
Red Cross workers collect cigarettes, tobacco,
and money to buy same for soldiers. Beauty of
this part of country beyond description. It
holds my interest to such an extent, I cannot
tear myself away from the door. Stay there till
long after dark. It is cold but I stay awake to
see what I can. I would have remained all
night were it not for men asking to have door
closed. Electric trains, American built engines
and railroad passed. Bridges, viaducts and
factories of familiar design. American soldiers
and officers in small numbers to tell us where
we are and give us welcome. They accept
liquor and tobacco from our boys. A beautiful
sunset. Not a gun heard or an airplane seen in
flight. This is nothing but a pleasure trip. Go
to sleep, or rather try to, sitting up against our
door, then lie down. Draft from cracks makes
me move closer to walls for warmth. Change
to other side, between two men. Still cold and
uncomfortable and at 2, I must get up and
undo my pack and get out blankets. Fall asleep
at about three. At ......... refugee children and
women.