Author: Thomas James Richards.
Date: 16th November 1916.
Nationality: Australian.

November 16th.  Thursday. Two lovely parcels from Mother to hand yesterday. On going to bed I opened the most mystic looking one. The customs label and stamps were torn off so that I could not gleam the contents. I got a delightful surprise to find it contained the most desirable articles possible, a sheepskin coat with sleeves in it and a pair of good gloves, socks and - 14 - soap. The round billy parcel I have not yet opened but the label tells me its contents to be plum pudding cake and cigarettes. It is risky to put dry cigarettes with moist cake they may mildew. K. Evans sent me a sheep skin vest which I was thankful for but the new one is easily the best I have yet seen and will be of great value in this country. Even now the weather though dry is frosty and cold. Well, great things have happened today. A change has come about that has altered my military career materially. Major Bamsden of our unit has recommended myself amongst four others for a commission in the 1st Battalion. Following upon his appointment I saw Colonel this morning at 11.30 a.m. He asked me a number of questions which seemed to satisfy him and then asked me if I thought I could command and lead a body of men. My reply was:- "On condition that I knew my subject, object and work, which I doubted without first having some training". He checked me at once, stating that he, himself, was there to judge that matter. This afternoon three of us, Woollams, Dingle and myself were sent for to see the Brigadier. Woollams was missing so Dingle and I went down and saw General Smyth, who in few words of questioning said that he would accept Colonel ---- recommendation and hoped that I would be successful and rise to promotion rapidly. Dingle was told very much the same thing. So tonight matters stand greatly altered. Tomorrow I go into Amiens and do some shopping before being called to face the Battalion. I do not rejoice over the matter, it may be honour, credit and all that sort of thing, but then my chance comes only through the number of casualties and the demand there is at present for officers. Anybody really can get one, many fellows have succeeded in getting through by going forward and asking, but I take a whole lot of satisfaction from the fact - 15 - that I was sent for. I know the danger of the undertaking full well. 11 officers were shot out of the 1st Battalion during their few days in the trenches at Longueval, some wounded of course. Out of 36 bombers only 6 now answer the roll call. Jim Randel I hear was shot in the chest and is serious. I would not have accepted the position only for the fact that I came away to do the bidding of my country. I came to help in any work that those above me saw fit to give me, and now I graciously accept a position of grave danger, and in doing so I have no fear but what I am doing the right thing, and I hold no presentiments on the matter whatever as my motto stands - "Whatever is, is best" Temperature: