Author: Thomas James Richards.
Date: 19th November 1916.
Nationality: Australian.

November 19th.  Sunday. Mother's parcel is now opened and it is in excellent condition; cake, plum pudding and sweets as well as a few little pastries to fill up, and tooth brush and paste. There is absolutely no indication of Sunday, no church service at all, and mind we are miles back from the firing line, in fact it is only when the wind comes over the battle front that we can even hear the guns at all. Anyhow, if there was a church service, would I go? If I did go, it would be purely to break the monotony and to have the pleasure of hearing an educated man string words together. Good language is elevating music to my ears. I know today also, that Dad is either at church or praying and reading his Bible at home in the Transvaal. He, I know, will be thinking of me, and also will Mother;after dinner I can see her lying on the couch and thinking deeply, yea, even wildly of Bert and I. Therefore, never a Sunday passes but what my mind drifts away back home to Africa. There has been a little rain today, but the cold is not so severe, even if the wind is blowing a little strongly. I went up on to the hill nearby in order to try and train my voice and call out orders with effect and strength. I went down to the canteen with Shergold and Dingle this afternoon and bought a pipe,having lost the one Jim Miller sent me, as I am beginning to crave a little for a smoke. This I will have to suppress as I must not acquire such a habit or - 18 - allow it to become a craving. I also bought 2 tins of pineapple and had tea and biscuits. We crossed the River Ancre, a branch of the Somme, several times. As a river it is very misleading, it being so narrow. 15 to 18 feet would span it anywhere. Even the Somme River at Amiens is disappointingly small. Many of our men were almost indignant concerning its small pretensions, but when one comes to consider the depth of the river and the loaded punts or boats it carries, its usefulness is beyond doubt. Australian rivers and creeks are allowed to meander along spreading over any shallow area and without any transportation value, whereas here the banks of the river are brought in and built firmly up so as to ensure a strong stream of water even if the narrowing of the bed does necessitate the building of a set of lock gates to hold the risen water back. I have done no work today. I wanted to write a story but cannot settle down. I want also to learn something about company and rifle drill too, but books are difficult to get. Never mind, I'll scramble through somehow as usual.