Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 16 April 1918.
Location: At Sea in Danger Zone.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Tuesday April 16, 1918
Weather: Cloudy, Fair, Warm, sea
calm
Health: cold slightly better, Head hurts
over eyes and nose from congestion
and cold.
At Sea, In Danger Zone.
A medical Examination.
Up at 6:00. Reveille. Remain on deck for
smoke. Cloudy but very warm. Sea is much
calmer than any lake I ever saw. Remarkably
glassy surface. Two land birds fly across our
bows. Flying fish numerous and a shark or
porpoise was sighted. Wash and make bunk.
Feeling miserable. Cannot blow my nose
without great pain and must breathe through
my mouth. Go on sick report, a thing I should
have done sooner. Wait in stuffy passageway
for half an hour which is mighty disagreeable.
Must go to hatch for air. Before turn comes we
must go up on deck for boat drill. I have been
transferred from boat 1C to 2A, Lt. Stevens.
Assigned to ropes, if boats are lowered. All
boats have been lowered to stations and made
ready for instant casting off. Dismissed. Back
to Hospital for treatment. Wait and read.
Doctor calls for me. Prescribes 2 CC pills, 6
quinine pills and Argerol drops in nose. I get
some relief at once. Breathing easier but pain
does not subside. Read until 11 when I mount
guard in boat 2A until 1 o‘clock. I am cold and
in my present state of health it is foolhardy for
me to stand in open boat, exposed as I am.
Interesting work though, which makes risk
worth while taking. I scan horizon on all sides
as systematically as I can but see nothing but
flying fishes and porpoises. Odd bits of
rubbish at times which are suspicious looking.
A lecture downstairs in hatch to all Co. E.
men. Relieved promptly at 1. Look about for
something hot for dinner. Miss 1st and 2nd
sittings. Get in for 3rd. Have a plate of hot
soup and some beans, tapioca pudding and
potatoes. There is meat which is rejected by
everyone. I lie down in my bunk and am hot
with fever or perhaps from quinine. As much
annoyed with myself for being sick today.
Afraid something will happen while I am
below that I am anxious to witness. Decide
that I must get well promptly. Everybody
below for drill call. When we go up, I find that
sun is shining. It is warm and I decide to stay
on deck. I go below and get my book and lie
over hatch on deck until time for mess,
reading. My nose is entirely free from mucous
now and my headache is gone, and things are
much more cheerful. Supper. Cheese, pickles,
bread, butter, marmalade, tea. Everybody
grabs as much as possible. Result, some boys
without food. Upstairs. Great excitement.
Smoke on horizon. It is convoy, we think.
Cruiser signals. Ship becomes visible and
proves to be a merchantman. Cruiser makes
prettiest dashes and turns to approach and
identify. Interest in cruiser's movements until
dark. Chat with boys. Piscara, a Staten
Islander in our company. Downstairs to read
for an hour. Go on guard again 9-11. Nothing
but gray sky, black water, phosphorescent
waves, ships, black hulks of ships. One shows
a green light at times. Cold and windy.
Manage to find shelter in boat. Well bundled
up. It rains for 5 minutes or so. Time passes
rapidly. Near end of my shift, Lieut. Stevens
comes into the boat and we have a chat, in
which I forget he is an officer and become
quite informal. Relieved at 11. Seized with a stomach cramp just as soon as I get into hold.
Fortunate it does not occur in boat. Write,
read. To bed at 12:30, In clothes. Sleep well.
Chat with Lieut. recalls home to me very
vividly and I dream of Leah and Cecelia and
New York and shop all night.