Author: Irving Greenwald.

Date: 18 May 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 


Sat. May 18, 1918
Weather: Fair, Warm
Health: Good
Up at 6:00. Reveille. Breakfast, oatmeal, jam,
bread, coffee. At Reveille it is announced that
Company will be ready at 6:50 for a hike to
........ . Mess kits and tent poles and pins will
be taken. Kitchen follows with water carts.
Machine gun and SOS schools do not go. I
have lots of time to clean my gun for some
practice shooting today at a range we will
build in the woods for our own use. We
assemble with picks and shovels and burlap.
One company absent. Another late. They
come up just as it has been decided to leave
me behind to wait for them and march them
down to where we will work. Go to woods.
Halt in a spot not far distant from where we
worked yesterday. Divided into two shifts by
taking front rank, in which I am, for half an
hour and then rear rank and so on. Nine men
in shift, divided into three shifts. Get stakes
out of a tree which someone chopped down
yesterday, mark out our ditch and begin
digging, after building up bit of fret work to
retain dirt thrown up by us. Easy shoveling.
Soft earth, yielding. Unaccustomed work for
me. Perspire freely. Change shifts. Take a look
around in forest. See strange things in the
shape of insects. Black begins carving his
name on the bark of a tree. I am moved to do
likewise. My first offense. I begin with the
idea of carving only my own initials, but as I
work it occurs to me to let that aged tree know
another secret in addition to the many that it
already knows, that I love Leah and Cecilie. I
an interrupted to take another hand at the
digging. It is harder work now. A stratum of
rock has been struck, which must first be
loosened with the pick. We find soft earth
again making it easier for the next and last
relief. They finish as Lieut. comes up with
burlap and wire to fix up five targets by
cutting up into strips, making five holes in one
and stretching it across two stakes. Tin is
looked for and, when found, piece is rounded
out and nailed to a forked twig and we are
ready to shoot. I am well along with my carving. Lt. and a man get into pit to work
target and score. Three men are posted on road
behind range to watch if any shots go over
embankment at back of trench. Five men get
ready to shoot, prone position. It must be
spotted and shot at immediately. It may appear
at another opening for other men or perhaps at
my hole. Quick aiming necessary. I make four
out of five shots. Resume carving, while
balance of men shoot, unconcerned in what
they are doing. I must give up my labours to
return for mess. We are dismissed until
Monday morning. Cheers. We expect a good
dinner. Rations left behind for us are a
disappointment. Canned bully beef, jelly, hard
tack. Bread supply and coffee exhausted
before we arrive. Coffee is being made. I
would like a glass of milk instead, so I do not
wait, but go in search of some. Get enough to
satisfy, then take my water bottle and gas
mask and go back into the heart of the woods
to finish carving my initials. I am alone. I meet
one of our men, but he goes on his way. Blade
of my knife breaks while I carve Cecelia's
initials. When I an finished, I sit down on tree
stump to write a letter to Leah. One of the
men, who was with us this morning, comes
with a detachment of men and CPI from his
company to shoot. They slight the range we
had built in morning. Shoot on one made by
themselves. I become drowsy and fall asleep.
Awakened by the sound of thunder. A shower
coming. I hurry back to billets. It begins to
rain. I feel sorry for the men who are out with
packs on hike. Lie in straw and write. Men
come in at end of slight shower. They have
been reviewed again by the English and
spoken to by General. Not pleased with
proceedings. Fall out for retreat. Mess.
Cheese, jam, bread, coffee. Write again until
dark. Slowly. Cannot concentrate. Take a walk
around the house to get into the open, so that I
can see the flashes of light coming from where
the guns are roaring once more. A fairly
intensive defense. A few loud reports may be
explosion of bombs dropped from planes.
Only scouts up over us tonight. Go to bed at
10. Sleep well. Some extra straw softens my
bed.