Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 5 March 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 

Tuesday Mar. 5, 1918
Weather: mild, clear Health: good
Up at 6:00. Reveille. Breakfast, oatmeal, ham bologna fried, coffee. Police incinerator and latrine. Outside to drill. As five new sergeants are to be made and a number of corporals selected from the ranks, Lieut. Cook who has charge of company, gives men opportunity to drill company and squads. He is guided in his choice by Sgt. Curley. Muller has charge for some minutes and provokes laughter. Others quite serious and anxious to make good. It is warm and we are marched for long stretches without rest. Back in firebreak for bayonet drill. Sgt. Kaplan. A short rest in between to catch a bite to eat and take a smoke. Dinner, boiled beef, green peas, potato, coffee. Outside without overcoats. Marched about for a while then issued trench gloves. Letter from Leah. Ordered to roll packs. Given twenty minutes, no room to spread out and fold blankets and shelter half. It takes me a long time but well within time allowance. Kaplan blows whistle to fall out. Catches me napping. I have not adjusted belt. In haste I make adjustments and go out to find company already assembled. Out of luck. Lieut. Gaston takes my name and others who were late. A Sgt. and a Corporal in the number. Lieut. Cook asks if I have any excuse to offer. I have but it does not suit him. Punished me, telling me to report after...4 pm... for two months, for extra fatigue duty. Likewise Bougartz. Others excused. Drill. Dismissed. Out again to form guard. Stack arms and remove blouses for physical exercise. Kaplan takes us. All balled up. Lieut. Gaston next. He is worse. More “As you were” than commands. Lieut. Cook happens along and watches for a time and finally takes charge. He puts us through stiff half hour’s work to relieve a grudge he has against us because an officer of another company had reported that a squad in charge of Pvt. Wall had behaved unbecomingly in his presence. After time he reads complaint to us. He threatens severe punishment if it again occurs. Form company again. Guard selected. Cook will not accept me in spite of Lieut. Gaston. Guard formed. Manual of Arms. Retreat. Guard Mount while I write. Band plays for first time which impels me to watch ceremony. Beautifully done with one exception. Supper, bully beef, pickles, potato, peaches canned, cocoa. Write to Etta, Morris Berger and school children and teachers who had sent me cake. Leah and Mama. Read paper. Go to PC to mail letters. Find that by way of punishment I am company fireman for a week. Bougartz night fireman. Write. To bed at 11:30. Jelly and bread in kitchen before I go up. Almost everybody is awake on account of guard duty. Notice has been posted on bulletin board that all suitcases and boxes must be disposed of by Saturday, a most discouraging outlook for me. Passes still being issued but I do not think I will get another while I am here.