Author: Thomas James Richards.
Date: 29th October 1914.
Nationality: Australian.

Thursday Oct. 29th.
It is astounding how
carelessly, fellows have their bits of
personal property lying about, and
after the orderly officer or cleaners
have placed things away in tiding
up, the fellow come in and
in very coarse terms accuse some
of stealing there towle or hat
fond as the "cleaners" are tired
of picking things up and placing
them on one side a notice now
appears on the board. It runs.
Article No 14 Scran Bag:-
"All articles of clothing or equipment
found lying about the ship in unauthorised
places or hanging on cloth lines after
their removal has been ordered, will
be collected by the ships police and
placed in the "Scran Bag". 
This bag will be opened every Thursday
afternoon at 4 pm in the aft well
deck when owners may claim their property on payment of
a bar of soap, which will be
utilised in cleaning the troop
deck to which they belong".
 
Today we done did our bandaging
practice as usual (in the
morning) in charge of Bill
Summer. Bill is of raw Derbyshire Yorkshire
lad with a thick dilect, he is
strange to say a driver with the transport
section and was given no credit of
knowing much first aid, but dear me
he is easily the best demonstrator
we have in the Corps.
To-day he lectured on the
circulation of the blood and in
such of a practical (though by no 
fluent) way that he did
much better than any of the
Doctors have yet done.
He is a surprise packet, although
his power as a wrestler xxxx were known.
 
The afternoon parade in
full marching order was very
dull indeed. A few of the fellows
drew their pay of 11/- I could
have done so, but am leaving
it run. I am very
worried over "Zelda" to-day. I
try to take and keep from her
but, alas, I cannot! Yet I don't
quite know whether its real affection or
longing, but its got me down.
All sealed correspondence has
now to scaease cease (stop) and much
speculation exists as to what
has become of letters posted 4
days ago. They are mighty
particular just now and since
the New Zealand fleet came in.
Their transport are painted the
same colour of  as the convoy while
Australian ships are any old
colour at all. As I sit writing these notes a fellow came in from the dry canteen with a bottle of Lemon Squash at 2/- he opened it and drank a considerable portion as it came from the bottle, his mates came along and in horrible language he told of the lack of cigarettes matches and cigars at the canteen, also cakes. He hardly finished when he rushed away vomiting vigorously. There are a number of these gluttonly fellows about and the wretches are alway squeaking  about everything and every body. I tried to go to sleep last night before 9 o clock but my hammock was bumped by every devil that passed to lazy were they to stoop, Then the schoolboy chatter and shouting went on all around. I promised myself that I would never again go to bed early and therefore be compelled to lay there and listen to such torment. I don't seem to get any fun out of things at all. I just want to read and write. I cannot find words to express myself freely and my mind craves for peace and quietness, but alas its not to be had aboard