Author: Thomas James Richards.
Date: 30th March 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

March 30th. Friday. Morning Parade:-- Lecture on Attack in Open War. Advance Guards (Practice). Lecture, Lewis Gun. Lecture, Intelligence. Interview by General Walker. Afternoon Parade:-- Examination Paper 3 hours. Company In Attack (open warfare), By Major Harris. Starting from a Coy. marching in column (just entered into a zone of heavy artillery fire) forming up artillery formation. Three points of consideration while in artillery formation. Going over a skyline. It is more dangerous to halt troops than to keep on moving. If you must halt, then get into a sheltered corner or fold in the ground, then men should kneel down as they will then offer a less exposure to shrapnel fire. H.E. is not very dangerous. Then by lying down the men are more difficult to get up again to move on, and there is also a false sense of security. Once a Coy, is extended it loses very largely all power  
of quick handling. 1st Phase; The breaking up of a column into artillery formation. 2nd. Extended Order as the body draws nearer. 3rd. Commencing the fire fight followed by the bayonet assult. The fire fight may begin at a range of 1300 to 1400 yards but it will frequently be possible to get within 8, or 900 yards and even closer before opening fire. Covering fire is best made by the Lewis guns. The best support one Coy. or Platoon can give another is to advance and ease their pressure instantly. Rifle strength should one per yards in attacking or holding a position. During a fire fight troops should on no account be allowed to dig in as, by so doing the advance is delayed and this should always be carefully avoided. Reorganisation should be at once commenced after an attack which succeeds or not. But be careful not to reorganise on the line the enemy were griven from as their artillery will have it marked. When one line reinforces another line they must not stop but keep on going and be joined up by the forward line moving ahead together. 4 cheif features:-- Advance in Artillery formation Break down to Skirmishing order Fire fighting Bayonet assult. Lecture on Lewis Gun. 1861 Gattling gun invented. 1866 French machine was invented but the war office kept it secret so long that nobody know how to use it when the war came on. It had an autamatic feed with 30 or 40 barrels. Shields are used on their present guns by most other nations but the British. This shields in some cases are very heavy, and we find that a gun cannot be affetively concealed or does the shield protect the gun from cross or enfilade fire.

The Lewis Gun can effectively fire 300 round per minute, although its rate of fire per min is equal to 700. A man only fires 12 shots a minute so that a Lewis Gun is equal in fire strenght to 28 men with a distinct advantage in being betterly directed and more effective fire. Firing at 500 yards range the beaten zone of fire extends over 200 yards represented as follows. Target Diagram - see Original Document
At  500 range 220 yards of fire        800   "        170      1,000   "        140       1,500   "          70 At  500    "        2½ ft.      1000    "        5     "      1500    "        10 ft.  It is always better to sacrifice concealment for a good field of fire. A Lewis Gun can go anywhere that infantrymen can go. Always consider if, by firing your Lewis Gun and risking the exposure of gun position. If necessary to fire be sure that you get good value for your shots. "Intelligence" by Capt. Maltby. Intelligence section should be carefully organised and drawn from the best men of the ranks. 1 draughtsman 2 snipers 2 observers 1 trained prismatic compass expert man etc. In trench warfare sniping is just as important as artillery fire in killing off the enemy. (In S. Africa it took 2500 rounds to kill one men). Snipers should bbe selected for their keeness and ability, they must be truthful and seldom pull a trigger without killing. I have found that when the enemy are shelling a careful observer can be almost certain of finding the periscope of the enemy artillery observer and the sniper shoot it down. With a good telescopic sight it is almost impossible to miss. Ammunication varies very much indeed some brands of American small arms are very bad. The good brands are as follows. K.N. R.L. D.A. Bad and unreliable brands are U.S. J.K.

Dont use wet cartridges or allow water in the barrell for sniping as moisture increases the gas volume and liable to sexpose the position. General Walker called each officer into the orderley room separately and spoke to them according to the report submitted on the work done by the instructors. Some reports were bad and the officers plainly spoken to by the General accordingly. To me he was very patient and remarked that I had done very well seeing my inexperience and the severe handicap that I have started off with in regards to infantry work. He remarked that the trouble usually is that we youngsters dont read enough or take sufficient notice of the pamplets issued from Division. The examination paper handed to us in the afternoon presented a whole of probolems to me. I fought and struggled earnestly with each subject in turn and answered them in accordance with my knowledge and the limited time at my disposal to answer. Some of the questions I could not clearly grasp and could not ask anyone. I made a very grave mistake, now that I can recall the position in a calm atmostphere, but attacking an enemy post from the South and overlooking the fact that there was another enemy post obstructing the way. The definition of a "Watercourse" beat me badly and as I could not find any running streams on the map I allowed it to pass on as a blank. Other questions I handled badly for want of time to gather my thoughts, and grasp just what was wanted. 