Author: Frederick Harold Tubb
Date: Tuesday 08.06.1915.
Nationality: Australian.

 Egyptian Gazette this morning gives particulars of another big scrap at the peninsula on the 4th inst.  Two boat loads of our wounded came in yesterday. Hear that Lt Bollon's bro is wounded & that Lt Campbell (who went back on the Australind with Col Elliot on the 26th ult) was killed The reports received here so far are that they have been having
 
a particular hell similar to when we first attacked. Hear that Capt Jess is our Bde Major now; Our Bde returned to Lemnos for two days only what is left of them are at the Gallopoli Having inspection of rifles to day. There is fear of an uprising of the natives and it is well to be quite prepared for anything. There are coast guards & patrols in all villages but they are mostly Egyptians. The natives have altered somewhat lately. Seeing & hearing of the large numbers of our wounded seems to have lessened their fear of us? Capt Dobbie QM.8th Bn came out to see Bolton. Dobbie came from the Gaba Tepe last Saturday he is invalided for a minor complaint He told us much news of the front says that our Brigadier called some of the Bde men names etc etc & that Bde Major Cass at Cape Helles made a remark or two etc etc The Royal Marine Light Infantries & the Drakes (the naval division (Territorials) did not shine out like our men (that is to put is mildly) Our men were ordered to "push on" 
"Push on" by Senior officers though much against the will & wishes of their own officer (who is seems had much better ideas) It bewilders one, hearing the different views of different officers Dobbie states that our line of defence is quite safe at Gaba Tepe that when he left we had 15 men to the yard & a machine gun to 10 yards & a field gun to 20 yards right along our line of defence. Our reserves are only 1000 yards from the firing line, our support only 10 yds from the front It is worse as the reserves than on the front trenches he says as regards shell & shrapnell fire We have a number of Japanese trench guns (mortars) which fire a shell in a lob a few hundred yards the shell is equivalent to a 6 inch gun. but the gun used is a little short one. The general belief is that the Australians advanced too far the first day at Gaba Tepe. Though our Bn officers did not want to they were ordered to by superior officers although the G.O.C.'s orders were to stop and entrench on the first ridge
 
as our C.O. & other officers of the Companies and platoons wanted to do The belief expressed by many who were present is that had we stopped & dug in on the first ridge we would not have lost more than 10% of what we did! 7pm Have heard that 6 more ships have had orders to fit out as hospitals & go to Gallopoli Report says that 16000 casualties have occurred the last few days The food & clothing supplies at the peninsula are plentiful and good, the Issues of cigarettes tobacco rum etc are given out every day, plenty of good blankets & stores also are there. Though there has been complaints re the medical arrangements & treatment of wounded in the majority of cases the service is good One cannot & should not expect everything perfect in a show like this. The heavy casualty list, the disorganization brought about by same. The huge task, & the breaking down of elderly superior officers etc etc I am filled with wonder at their power & magnitude of the British Empire & the way thing continue 
 despite the thousands of things that tend to disorganise & demoralize. One has only to view the shipping, the Navy the Army The transport Commissarial etc etc. The gigantic task being attempted, & think a bit & he is amazed that the huge concern is progressing so well as it is. "It's a long way to Tipperary" or Constantinople for that matter, or to Berlin either Im thinking eh? what! 