Author: Irving Greenwald.
Date: 10 March 1918.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Sun. Mar. 10, 1918
Weather: cloudy, snowing Health: good
Up at 7:00. Make bed. Roll call in quarters. Breakfast, cornflakes, pork sausages, tea. Fires in excellent condition. Require little attention. Some find time to lie down for a nap. Some new men are transferred to F. Company. Weather becomes very nasty. It is raining. Must unroll pack to get at slickers. I am very uncomfortable working in it. It is hot. All fires going well. I read newspaper, make another round of fires and go to telephone Leah. She is cheerful. Dr. Goldberg is with her making a preparatory examination. She tells me cheerful news. I tell her I will be in town tomorrow, which will probably be final goodbyes, as no knowledge whatever of future movements. I am happy to hear her voice. Go back to quarters, fires being OK. I have dinner. A most disappointing meal for Sunday. Tough boiled beef, peas, cocoa. It has started to snow. Visitors have arrived in large numbers. Quite a few women and men in our mess hall. Harry supplies cocoa for them. In orderly room, Lieut. Cook has company. I am first aware of his presence by odor of perfume. They have had dinner. I hate to intrude but fires need attention. I wash underwear, socks and PO shirt. Snowing very hard now and a strong gale blowing. Fires need a lot of coal. I run over to Colonel’s quarters and a sight greets my eyes that baffles deception. The gale has blown open front door and through that, and a window in his room, the snow has been blown in a drift an inch deep in places. I open water faucets and find pipes are frozen. His bed and clothes and shoes all covered with snow. Saddle, which Paddy, hostler, spends so much time cleaning, is covered. Kitchen range, shelves, everything. Work quickly to put things in shape. See picture of court martial and dire punishment before me. Scoop 2 baskets full of snow out of room and start a wood fire in kitchen range. Afraid I will not be able to thaw out frozen pipes. Run to barracks and ask for man with mop to clean up a bit. None forthcoming. At last pipes warm up and water begins to flow. The door continuously blows open. Finally I put coal on fire in range. Wield broom for 10 minutes and leave place in fairly good condition. So cold now that I have to put on blouse. Intrude on Lieut. Cook again. I and my work are subjects of conversation. Final coal on fires. Wash up and have supper. Frankfurters, pickles, potatoes, prune jello, tea, jam and bread. I instruct my relief, who is a f... by profession. Two men on job for night, account of inclement weather. Read newspaper. Make Jones’ bed and my own. Write on cot until taps tattoo blows. Make up a few more beds and continue writing in Mess Hall. Sgt. McWhinny looks for detail to get shoes from warehouse, which goes reluctantly. To bed 10:30. Restless. Very cold. At times think barracks will be blown away. Mighty glad that Leah has not come to visit me today. She could not have weathered storm. Many poor women in camp have great difficulty in going to station. I get a letter from Sam, who is at Camp Merritt, NJ awaiting embarkation.
