Author: T. L. Tyobbs.
Rank: Colonel.
Date: July 22nd 1915. 
Nationality: Australian.
 Dear Mr Henn,  Doubtless it is the intention  of the Trustees to place on the walls   of your beautiful school Chapel the  names of Boys who have passed  through the School; and who have   died in the service of their Country.   I can think of no lad who more   deserves this honour than Douglas   Barrett-Lennard  - an old Guildford   School Boy - I am informed - who was   killed in action here. GALLIPOLI   PENINSULA. last Sunday.  As a matter of fact he was not  killed when the shell struck him; but   lived a couple of hours afterwards.  He with Sergt. Taylor & Gunner  Stanley Carter all of the 8th West Aust.  Battery were serving a gun under   heavy shell fire from the Enemy when  a High Explosive Shell struck the   shield & terribly wounded the 3 men.   Carter only lived a short time -  regaining consciousness just before he 
passed away, asked "Is the gun   alright, Sergt?"  Young Lennard allthough in frightful   agony lived for two hours & remained   conscious until the end. He bore his   awful sufferings  with magnificent  courage & fortitude. Calmly left   messages for his loved ones at "Home"   & said just before the end. "Well   lads I'm done. I feel myself sinking  but by God you see I'm   dying hard.  His conduct from the time he  joined the Battery had been marked  by the most earnest devotion to duty  & he had done well & would soon  have got well earned promotion - as   an instance of his spirit of self   sacrifice - he said when he & his   wounded comrades were being removed   from the Gun pit - "Look after   the Sergeant - I'm alright" - this   with with shoulder smashed his arm  hanging by a shred his leg smashed   to a pulp. His death is a severe  loss to his Battery & is deeply   deplored by his many friends.
His example of devotion in duty,   courage, fortitude & self sacrifice   will be handed down for long  years to come in the history of his,   may I say it now - famous Battery.  I write this as I think his friends   & the Boys in the School should   know how gallant a lad he was,   how well he knew his duty & did it  &  the example he leaves them to follow.  Sergt Taylor whom I mentioned had   14 shrapnel wounds in his head &  shoulders, but wanted the others looked   after first, saying - "I'm only scratched  - look after the others-"  This my Dear Mr Henn is the stuff   the majority of our lads from Australia   are made of -  I hope there are many   ready to follow the examples set by   Sergt Taylor. Gunr Lennard + Gunr   Carter.  With kind regards  I am  Yours sincerely  J. L. Tyobbs.. Col  Commanding Division Artillery  1st Aust Div.