Cairo Mena Camp March 2nd 1915  Dearest Mater Well we did not leave on Saturday afternoon after all - such a disappointment! Its quite the old Blackboy Hill style again - we spend all day packing & unpacking. I think we are bound to leave shortly now, probably tomorrow or the next day. All our Infantry have left & we are all packed waiting for the order to leave too. There is no fresh news to tell you Mater dear except all the rumours of where we are going to.  Some say to the Dardanells & to advance on Constantinople, others to Jaffe, German East Africa or perhaps to England or France & numerous other quite possible places. None of us know a bit where we 
are going to & don't much care either as long as we get some fighting somewhere. I spent a most enjoyable afternoon & evening in Cairo on Sunday - paid a visit to the Citadel & Saw its famous & wonderful mosques - its beautiful domes & chandilier with its thousand lights. I was also given the opportunity to speak to a few Indian Soldiers who were wounded in the fight on the Canal & such brave & inspiring fellows they were too. This soldiering games takes all the conceit & bosh out of ones head -  not is his hopes for future achievement or his high ideals but just the bally rot one gathers about himself & puts him squarly face to face with things in general & to take a broader view of life. Our bad conduct has been greatly exaggerated in all the Australian papers -  certainly there have been cases of disorderly conduct - drunkeness & a fair number of diseases but this can only be expected from 400000 troops who 
who don't care a damn now that they are going to the War, M time enough to  find yourself as they say on the way home if you are lucky enough to escape - we can only feel sorry for them & profit by their mistakes. I know that we will reap our reward by our clean living in good health which should show up at the front. I was at a sort of dance in town last Sunday night & tried to dance the French dancers with a little french girl, the dances here are quite different to ours as I soon found out much to my horror & discomfort. She could not speak a word of English & you know what my poor old French is like, however I kept my eyes well opened & she was quite capable of showing me into the right place so I managed to scrape through after a fashion. These French are most graceful dancers & am afraid I was very awkward & clumsy & my military boots.