
Author: P. M. Edwards.
Rank: Lieutenant.
Date: July 18th 1915. 
Nationality: Australian.
 My dear Mrs Lennard  It is my painful task & it is  with regret & deepest sympathy that I  have to inform you of poor Douglas's death.  He died of wounds yesterday evening caused  by a shell bursting in the gun pit of the  gun that he was on.  He was acting No 2  on the seat & a mate on No. 3 seat was also  killed & his sergeant wounded. It has  been a terrible blow to the battery as poor  little Doug was a favourite with everyone  & proved himself to be one of the bravest  of the brave in the battery. It was his  determination, pluck & originality that won  such admiration from his comrades. I was sent  for as soon as it happened from my gun &  was with him then until the last. His left  arm & leg were both broken & I think shock  caused him to go off easier. He was unconscious  the last hour or so & it was only his determination  & grand constitution that kept him alive so long.  His last words "Tell them at home Loni that I  died bravely fighting on my gun'-
July 18th 1915.  To  6.C. 8th Battery  This is to report on the heroic   conduct of the late Driver D.R. Lennard  under painful & pathetic conditions after  being wounded by the evening's  shell  on the 17th inst.  Lennard was serving the Gun (being No 2)  where he was wounded, and although he  seemed to fully realise the seriousness  of his own wounds, he asked that others  be attended to first, remarking-  "Look after the Sergeant Sir, I'm  alright" and afterwards continued to show  wonderful pluck & fortitude. One of his  many remark was (and this was characteristic   of others)  "Well lads, I'm gone. I feel  myself sinking - but by God you see I'm  dying hard".  Considering Sir, that such bravery  should come from a boy of 20 years of age
and bearing in mind the painful  nature of his injuries - I feel that  I should be failing in my duty  if I neglected to place these  facts before you  P.M. Edwards Lt  Right section Commander.