July 24th 1915  (Portion of second letter from Son)   It will be a terribly sad  blow to you all    & you all have my deepest sympathy. I know what   you will go through when you hear this terrible news:   I know what it is myself & was only a chum   but a real one Mr Lennard & it has been a terrible   loss to me. I have one consolation & am sure you   will feel it too & that is that he with his comrade   they died wonderfully brave deaths, & the whole   Battery are wonderfully proud of the three which   will be remembered by all for many a day.   The Dr remarked to me afterwards that it   was a wonderfully brave death. The Major    & in fact everyone did all they could for  him. He was wonderfully liked by all   the boys & cheered everyone up by his   cheerfulness & determination.  I have done his grave but hope to put   a border round it & make it look peaceful   & as pretty as possible and I hope to be   able to have a photo taken of it.


"HOW THE MEN IN THIS BATTERY DIE."  EXTRACT FROM A SOLDIER'S LETTER.  The following extract from a letter, writ-  ten from the front by Corporel H. R.  McLarty of the 8th Battery, and who  prior to the time he joined the expedition-  ary forces, was employed in the Perth  branch of the A.M.P. Society, indicates the  spirit in which our men at the front face  the supreme ordeal of the battlefield. The  other men referred to in the letter are  Sergeant "Mick" Taylor, formerly of 36  Raglan-road, North Perth; Douglas Len-  ard, son of G. Barrett-Lennard, of the  Swan; and Stanley Carter, son of Cr. R.  B. Carter, of Freemantle:-  "This how the men of this battery die:   - When the smoke from the bursting shell  had cleared away, Wallis ran up to see the  damage. He found Mick Taylor crawling  about the ground, covered in blood and  dazed. Bill said, 'Are you badly hit, Mick?'  'No, Bill,' he said 'I am only scratched;  look after Doug and Stan.' (We subse-  quently found that he was wounded in 14  places.) Bill Wallis then picked up Doug  Lennard The poor lad had one arm off,  one leg shattered at the thigh, and inter-  nal wounds. He said: 'I'm done; look after  Mick and Stan; don't mind me.' Carter  was leaning on the gun. He had a fearful  wound in the side. He said: 'I'm sorry I'm  moaning; I know it will upset the others,  but I can't help it; I can't help it.' He  died, poor lad, almost immediately. His  last words were, 'Did they get the gun?'  Doug was in fearful agony, but kept say-  ing, 'I'm dying, but, by God, I'll die game.'  He lingered for two hours and it was a  terribly pitiful thing to watch. His last  words were, 'I died at the gun, didn't I?'  And so he went, dear lad, the most gallant,  the most unselfish little soldier God ever  made. He has taught us all how to die.  Mick may pull through—14 wounds. God  grant it may be so. I do not think in the   whole history of this war there is anything  to eclipse this incident for gallantry or  unselfish devotion to comrades.  The General spoke to us all. He said,  'Dear lads, I have heard of nothing gran-  der than the way your comrades died. I  am proud of your battery. I would be  proud to be a gunner in your battery. I  only hope that when you return you will  be appreciated as you should be.'  "We buried the dear lads side by side at  midnight. It was a real soldier's burial  The minister's voice was drowned in the  crack of the bulets whistling overhead  And thus we left them."

