
Author: Douglas Barrett Lennard.
Location: Gaba Tepe, Turkey. Date: July 17th 1915.  
Nationality: Australian.


5.A.M
Dear Pater Mail day has come round once again, the days simply fly here although the weather is now becoming a trifle hot which will help to make the days seem longer as we are very badly off for shade. In a Sub Section there are walking two different detachments which means that the one on duty have to have their swags packed by 4.A.M. & to be ready to man the gun if called upon at any possible moment -  consequently the present early hour for writing. News is as scarce as ever but rumours to further orders, also letters having to be censored by one of our own Battery Officers which causes a certain amount of embarressment & helps to make a letter less interesting. At daylight this - morning a German aeroplane flew over our heads & presented us with two bombs- one fell about a quarter of a
mile away & the other one landed quite close but luckily did not explode, however after dropping the bomb she was nearly brought down by her own men who mistook her for one of ours & gave her a pumping of shrapnel. before they discovered their mistake. I also heard this- morning that Major Brockman stopped a bullet in the chest & hit slightly in both legs when on the beach by a sniper, but it is not considered dangerous. At present we are still holding our position but we seem to be preparing for a big move which should take place very shortly now. Our heads seem to think that if this present move is successful, & it is sure to be so but only at our own cost that the time here in Turkey will be practically over. I do hope it will be true because I am not looking forward to spending winter in the trenches. One has to admit that these Turks are damn good fighters & have always played the game so far but it is the German Officers that cause all the trouble. 
May God grant you all strength to receive the news of  your loving son & the best friend of his heart broken pal   Love D. Cusack.
 P.S. He was buried yesterday evening  & is resting in peace. I will look   after his grave. His things  will be sent home  London.

Written just before going into action for the last time.