

Author: Douglas Barrett Lennard.
 Date: 13th May 1915.

Nationality: Australian.
 My dearest Mother, I must try & scribble you a few lines somehow before the mail tonight, but it is writing under rather difficult circumstances, having been under heavy fire for the last fortnight. I am writing with a borrowed pencil -  using stolen paper - & my very last envelope. When this is gone I shall send cablegrams fortnightly & my Service P.C's. I am absolutely well & sound & Tom is also although we have both had our share of excitement & fighting. For the last ten days we have worked severty every night & nearly all the days & the whole Battery is absolutely exhausted & fatigued. We have been sent to the beach to rest for two days to recover. During that ten days we have been digging gun pits over our Infantry firing line so as to be able to
shoot out of them the following day & have been under fire & exposed to snipers & shrapnel the whole time. Our casualties up to date have been rather heavy - about 25% of the Battery that has landed are wounded (only one actual death) the rest having gone into hospital. Fred & Cedric Patterson were both hit by shrapnel at the same time & Roy Braidwood who is my Sergeant was unfortunate enough to stop a bullet while we were running our gun into action a few morning ago. Our Infantry have suffered terribly -  Barnes-Lalor & hundreds of others are dead but of course their names have been published long ere this. The food we are served out is exceptionally good though sometimes the water is scarce. I am satisfied that I will be able to rough it with any of them also the hard work that we fall in for at times & lack of sleep, I am able to stick it out with most. I must explain Mater that while camped at Mena when we thought we were never going to the War - 
I feel quite friendly towards the old Turk & would not mind having a pot with him anywhere but these German [[cons?]] I feel I can never trust. We have been afraid that they would make use of their asphyxiating gases so have been issued with Ir respirators which we carry round our necks at night time & are kept in a handy place during the day. They certainly will have the advantage over us if they come at that dodge because they have the wind blowing from their direction but still I think there is little to fear in that quarter & the gases are fairly harmless if we have our respirators on. I have received no mail from home since writing to Mother but am expecting some in the near future, also some writing material. I suppose you & the boys are busy pruning - I would like to be with you but still would not miss. this show for anything. Hoping you & Mother are quite well & to hear from you again soon with love to everybody from your loving son D. Barrett - Lennard