Author: Alan Dudley Henderson

Date: 12.11.1914  G.G. Henderson, Esq., Location: 89, Harcourt Street, Hawthorn, Vic.
 Dear Sir, The Australian War Memorial Museum, containing as it does the written records, the pictures, and the relics of Australia's forces which served in the GreatcWar, has, as you are probably aware, been established by Act of Parliament of the Commonwealth as the national memorial tothose who fell or died in this country's service during that struggle. A certain portion of these records, comprizing pictures, official photographs, models, and relics, has for the last five years been exhibited in Melbourne and Sydney, but the whole will later be brought together and permanently housed at Canberra in a monumental building, plans for which are now being determined. In the library of the "War Museum" there are preserved the written records - that is to say, the war-diaries of the A.I.F. as they were written up from day to day in the field, the signal messages written in battle, the correspondence files, maps, air-photographs, naval records, and other official documents, as well as copies of most books or publications of both sides which touch or have a direct bearing on the work of the Australian forces, newspaper files for the years 1914-1918, and a number of private diaries and letters - all of which are now being used by the official historians, and will through the coming centuries be the main source of information for students and for those writing of Australia's war-effort. Many living officers and men have given their private war-records into the custody of the Memorial library, and the collection is still growing week by week. But in respect of the records of those who died, it is not sufficiently representative; and, as these are the men and women to whom the War Memorial is dedicated and whose great service it will for all time commemorate, it is especially fitting that every effort should be made to collect and worthily preserve their papers and letters. The Australian soldier and sailor frequently recorded in his diary or in his home-letters indications of the thoughts, hopes, and fears which were then uppermost in his mind, and descriptions of his own and others' work and actions. These papers are often the most valuable human documents, bearing evidence of supreme effort and endurance in circumstances of which, unfortunately, there is in many cases nowadays practically no other existing record. It is apparent, from the diaries and letters which have already come into the keeping of the War Memorial library, that in many homes there must exist numerous letters and other papers which would form data of importance and value. It has therefore been decided to ask the relatives of some of those who gave their lives if they would kindly agree to present to the War Memorial library now, or bequeath to it later, any such documents in their possession. For this reason I am writing to inquire whether you can see your way to contribute to the Memorial the letters received from your gallant sons, the late Alan Dudley Henderson and the late Rupert Howard Henderson, during their service with the A.I.F., or any other
G.G. Henderson, Esq. 2. relevant papers, diaries, maps, photographs, etc. It is of course recognized that these documents are very precious to you, being in the nature of cherished heirlooms which, if kept in your family, cannot fail to inspire future generations of Australians with a spirit of devotion and self-sacrifice and a determination also to serve their country well. On the other hand it may perhaps be reasonably held that, if included in a library such as the one being formed by the Australian War Memorial, they will be of even greater value to Australia as a whole, and, in the long run, more tenderly and carefully preserved. In the case of letters it is also realized that they must contain much of a private and family nature. The documents in the War Memorial library, however, include many confidential State papers, and are well guarded, and only to be inspected by historians on conditions strictly laid down. The confidence imposed by these conditions has never been and is never likely to be broken. If you decide that you are unable to part with these private records, at least for the present, might I suggest that you will be good enough to allow the War Memorial library to copy or to make extracts from them? In that case all care will be taken of them, and they shall be returned to you either separately or together, as you wish, as soon as the work of copying has been completed. In addition, you may know of interesting letters written by your sond to others of their relations or friends, who possibly still preserved, which might suitably find a place in the War Memorial collection. The War Memorial Board would be grateful if you would assist it by sending to me the names and addresses of any friends who would be likely to present such letters. Yours faithfully, Director Australian War Memorial.