Author: Elmer Holmes Van Schoick
Location: France 
Date: 23 May 1918

Having heard a little rumor that ten men were wanted from our billet to do a little
fatigue duty this evening, I decided to take refuse in the YMCA tent until the men were
picked, as I didn’t feel much like working tonight. Will start a letter now, which I will
probably finish later.
We worked last night and the night before until 12 p.m., and I was busy all day
today doing some carpenter work (a man has to do a little of everything over here), so I
have not had much leisure the last few days.
Last Sunday night Bishop Brent, headquarters chaplain for the A.E.F., talked to us
here. He has been an Army chaplain for 15 years and has been all along the Western
Front in connection with his work. He read a chapter from Maccabees (I never heard of it
before) concerning a woman and her seven sons who were all tortured to death because
they would not violate their Mosaic law. He emphasized the moral as well as physical
courage they showed, calling attention to the fact that almost all men have physical
courage enough for any occasion but that many lack moral courage to endure the tedious
and monotonous hardships of Army life.
He said the British fleet has shown the greatest moral courage in history during
this war. They have had to be always ready and watchful, but have had hardly a chance
to fight. His talk did me (as well as all of us) a great deal of good, as we are often
inclined to be fretful about this waiting and training period, and are perhaps a little over-
anxious to get into the big game up on the line.
A couple of American girls came out from [General Headquarters] a day or two
ago and gave us a little concert in the “Y” tent. They were not especially talented or
beautiful, but being fresh from God’s country and so typically American, they made a big
hit. Their best number was one of those catchy, popular songs, which we hadn’t heard
before, entitled “And Everything.”
I have been made an acting corporal or squad leader. A corporal has the meanest
job in the Army. He has to do about as much work when on detail as a private, and in
addition has to be more or less responsible for the actions of the seven privates in his
squad. If he stands in well with the men, he is liable to be “broken: (reduced for laxity or
inefficiency), and if he doesn’t get along with the men, they won’t work at all for him.
So he will be broken anyway. The phrase “between the devil and the deep sea” fits his
case exactly. Realizing these things, I am not exactly rejoicing at this pseudo-promotion.
I told the captain that I was only taking the squad through a sense of patriotic duty, as I
was afraid it would tend to spoil my big vacation I have been having since I enlisted.

Officially, however, I am still a private first-class, and maybe if I am lucky, I will
never be a corporal. Corporals are a necessary evil, as one can never be a sergeant (that
is, in this regiment) or even a second lieutenant, (which next to a private is the best and
easiest job in the Army), without first serving a term as corporal. The captain was kind
enough to say that a man of my ability and experience (I admitted having lots of both)
ought to be able to make good even in this rather speedy company. I like the captain
because he is so much like C.S. Reed, and I know what he is going to say, about three-
fourths of the time, before he gets the words out of his mouth.