Author: Elmer Holmes Van Schoick
Location: France 
Date: Sunday March 24, 1918

We had our first rainy day since arriving here (censored, probably Humes), but as
we were not called out for any drills we didn’t mind the rain. Since then the weather has
been warmer and the nights have been perfect, with a beautiful moon in a clear sky.
”While the First Battalion was at the front during March and April, Companies C
and D had been spending their first two weeks at Humes, near Langres, in becoming
adjusted to their new quarters and in continuing the usual drills and hikes (page 32)
Thursday I was posted as a first-class private, much to my surprise. This means
an additional, $3.36 per month in pay, which is about the only difference between first-
class privates and ordinary “bucks.”
Friday our platoon was out of town all day, at work up on one of the hills, and on
our return we were paid. This was our first payday since February 5th and was much
appreciated. We were paid in French money at the rate of five and seven-tenths francs
per dollar. I drew 134 francs, which is more money than I really know what to do with. I
think I will make an allotment of fifteen dollars per month, which will be sent home and
can be deposited to my account or kept by dad till I get home. I will let you know more
definitely about this later.
Yesterday almost everybody went to a city about (censored) as Saturday
afternoon is a holiday. This is a very old town, built on top of a hill and entirely
surrounded by a high stone wall. I think the city was founded in the tenth century, and it
is as delightfully medieval in appearance as one could wish. I bought the following
articles:
1 French-English pocket dictionary for two francs.
1 French-English grammar – four and one-half francs.
1 Saturday Evening Post, March 2nd, one-half franc.
1 Pocket flash light – six francs.
1 Very good meal – four and one-quarter francs.
1 Indelible pencil – one-half franc.
The prices are not excessive, about the same as in the states, I believe. We have
had no mail as yet, but I hope it won’t be long until I hear from home. If you are sending
me anything, please include two small jars of Mentholatum, which I find invaluable.