Author: Elmer Holmes Van Schoick
Location: France
Date: May 12, 1918

This is Mother’s Day, and everybody connected with the Postal Service between
here and home has promised to speed this letter on its way. The “Stars and Stripes” has
been after everyone in the A.E.F. for several weeks urging them to write home today, and
it has had the cooperation of the Army, Postal, and YMCA officials. I happened to be the
first man in our billet to bring the boys’ attention to the significance of this day, and I
think each one of the thirty men in this barn will write today.
I have special reason to be thankful today as I received your letter #7 last night
and had the satisfaction of knowing that my letters had at least begun to arrive. If my
letters prove only one-half as interesting and as helpful to you and Father as yours are to
me, I will think of myself as quite a wonderful letter writer. Sometimes I write under
some difficulty as to conditions, but if I fail in coherence and clarity of construction, etc.,
I will never fail to put a world of love in each letter home.
Last Sunday I went to town in the morning and stayed all day, spending most of
my time at the YMCA hut. I wrote a few letters there and read some month-old
newspapers from the States.
Monday I received your letter #8. I suppose business reasons were the principal
causes for changing the name of the German-American bank.
Bloomington having gone dry by such a large majority will probably stay on the
right side this time.
I hope that Fifer’s prediction as to the duration of the war is fulfilled. He
probably knows more about when the war will end than we do. The only thing I am
really sure about is that we will win decisively sooner or later.

n my letter last week, I spoke of being sent on detached service. I have heard
nothing further and do not know when I will go. In addition to your letter #7, I received
Edna’s second letter, as well as six or eight from Ottawa friends. We never read a letter
over here once and let it go at that, but usually read them at least three or four times so as
to be sure we haven’t missed anything.
We received our pay for April last Friday, and I drew 169 and ½ francs at the rate
of five and 7/10 francs per dollar.
The overwhelming success of the third Liberty Loan was very welcome news to
us. The folks at home certainly seem to be getting into the game in great shape, and are
showing the spirit which will help to end the war quickly.
Our company has adopted a French war orphan, and each of us has given a few
francs toward the support of the child. A plan has been worked out whereby each
company in the A.E.F. will contribute to the support and education of one of these
unfortunate victims of the Boche, and ours was one of the first companies to get in line.
Five hundred francs will take a child out of the war zone and support him for one year.
Many of my Ottawa friends who got commissions in the training camps last
summer are still in the States teaching recruits to do “squads east and west,” and I
wouldn’t trade jobs with any of them. The possibilities of seeing and doing things here
are so great that I feel sorry for any young man who, either through necessity or
inclination, misses a trip to France this year. It’s the only place I want to be at a time like
this.
We continue to get good food and plenty of it; in fact, the best of everything. But
nothing is too good for Americans, whether at home or overseas.
Will close now with a world of love to all and especially yourself.
Sunday Evening, May 12
After I had written and mailed my letter to you today, I wandered over to the
YMCA where I picked up this leaflet. On a poster in front of the tent, I found the
following poem, written today by a member of Company C. It has been raining all day
today.
Mother’s Day in France
It rains but the world is mellow
In a soothing sort of way,
Like the world is weeping, weeping,
For our mothers far away.
Who knows, she may be praying,
And low is her head of gray,
Prayers for her gallant soldier
On this, his mother’s day.

There is nothing so sweet to a soldier
As thoughts of his mother dear.
It seems he thinks about her more
When a day like this is here.
Let your letters be long to your mother,
On this, the 12th of May,
Make her think that your life is pleasant,
Make her know you are feeling gay.
And though the day is rainy,
Though the sun gives never a ray,
Make believe the birds are singing,
For today is our Mother’s Day.