Author: Elmer Holmes Van Schoick
Location: France 
Date: June 16th, 1918

It is Sunday evening and almost time for lights out, but I will write a page or two.
Maybe you would be interested in knowing just what I did today as it has been a typical
Sunday schedule. At seven a.m. the bugle sounded first call, the sergeant yelled
“everybody up,” and I came back to France from Bloomington, rolled out of my blankets,
swore at the war and the Army and dressed. At 7:15 the sergeant yelled, “Everybody out
with rifles,” and we fell in and marched around the corner for reveille at 7:20. After reveille, we marched back to the billet, washed, made beds, and fell in line for mess at
7:45. We had our regular Sunday morning meal of hot cakes, syrup, and coffee. After
breakfast, I had a shower bath, changed my underwear, O.D. shirt, sox and shoes, shaved
and took my soiled clothing up the road to Madam X., who will wash them for deux
francs cinquarte centime. I returned to the billet and read Booth Tarkington’s Seventeen
and wrote a short letter to Lida Ashley, which occupied the time ‘till noon.
At 12:15, mess call sounded and I went over to get my steak, mashed potatoes,
bread and coffee.
This afternoon three of us, and Don, the black poodle went out into the woods for
a walk. We found quite a few wild strawberries, small but of excellent flavor, threw
sticks for Don to retrieve, speculated on why the mail didn’t arrive, and got back to the
billet about 4:00 p.m. in hopes the mail had come, but found it hadn’t. I read Seventeen
until the boy came out from ---- with the newspapers and then read the meager war
dispatches and fell back on Seventeen as more exciting. At 5:10 p.m., we fell in for
retreat, and at 5:15 stood at “present arms” while the band played the “Star Spangled
Banner.” Then mess again at 5:30, cold, canned roast beef, cake with dried applesauce,
and the ever-present bread and coffee.
This evening I helped the family here pitch hay into the barn until 7:00 p.m., then
went to the “Y” tent for the evening service. The sermon was a dandy one preached by a
YMCA worker who I bet was from Alabama, as he had no use for the letter “R.” I think
his name was Taylor, but none of the other boys agree, so he will have to be nameless.
Writing this letter will conclude the day’s festivities. I would like to give you a weekday
schedule, too, but the censor would probably find it too interesting for home
consumption.

Tuesday, June 18th 1918
I have just returned from a lecture given by Lieutenant M. of the Interpreters Corp
of the French Army. His subject was the “Geography of France,” and was very
interesting, to say the least. France is one-fifteenth as big as the States, but has almost as
great a variation in climate and scenery as has our own country. In area it is as large as
Illinois, Wisconsin, Indiana, and Michigan combined. Enough of statistics. I won’t
bother with them again, but thought the little facts given above might give you some idea
of this wonderful little country. The Lt. has lived in the States and is a very well-
educated man, as well as a charming speaker. Last week he spoke on “Legends of
France.”
You know that all branches of the Army have distinctive insignia, such as crossed
rifles for the infantry, a castle for the engineers, crossed cannon for the artillery, etc.
What could be more suitable for the interpreters’ corps insignia than a sphinx head? That
is what they wear, a small sphinx head on each coat lapel.

Wednesday evening, June 19th 1918
I have held this letter hoping that the mail will come, but believe that I will mail it
tonight and write again later.
We had another very good talk at the “Y” tonight by the daughter of the Belgian
Prime Minister. Her command of the English language was perfect, and her story of the
sufferings of her people under the German yoke was wonderful. I am sure we were all
helped by her eloquence and strengthened in our determination to soak the Boche good
and hard.
Will close rather hastily as it is time for lights out. With much love to all.