Author: Elmer Holmes Van Schoick
Location: France 
 Date: Wednesday, June 5th, 1918

Four a.m. of this perfect June morning is a most unusual time to be starting a
letter, but as I feel like writing and am not liable to be interrupted, I will proceed. I am
on guard duty again, but this time am acting as corporal of the guard so do not have to
walk post during my relief. I am seated at a little table in the guardhouse with a lighted
candle before me, the other reliefs snoring peacefully about me, and our unfortunate
comrades who happen to be spending a few days “in the jug,” sound asleep overhead.
We received mail last night. Your letter #11, Emily’s second letter, two from
Ottawa, and a cheery little note from Ralph Brown made up my quota.
I am indeed sorry to hear of Father’s accident; I hope he is able to be around again
long before you receive this.
The birthday greetings were appreciated; although, I had forgotten that I was so
close to another milestone. Everything over here dates from enlistment and more
especially from the eventful night when we left, I suppose I must still say, “an Atlantic
port.” I suppose you know that after six months foreign service, every man, from
General Pershing down, wears a little V-shaped gold service stripe on the cuff of his left
sleeve. Another stripe is added for each six months, and some lucky boys already have
two of them. I have already earned one-half of one (sounds Dutchy).
As I was posting my guards at three a.m., I saw long streamers of light rays
stretching across the heavens from east to west. I told the men it was the zodiacal light (I
guess it was and had to give some explanation, as it could not have been artificial).
We have had some very good addresses at the “Y” tent by Dr. Marsh of a
Methodist church in Pittsburg, PA. I have heard him on three different occasions and
enjoyed his sermons. It takes real nerve to preach a regular sermon to soldiers, but I told
the boys that only a M.E. preacher could do it and “get away with it.” This is what I
mean. So many of the YMCA men try to sugarcoat their religious talks and ease them
into us before we get wise, but I admire a man that will preach and come right out and
admit he is preaching and not “addressing” or “lecturing.”
I should think that Uncle Wes ought to come across with a little bigger
subscription on the Liberty Loan. But I don’t suppose he gets much encouragement from
Nellie and Aunt Mary.
We put on a really clever minstrel show at the “Y” tent the other night. I mean
our company did, as I was only a spectator. We have quite an array of talent, and
everything went through splendidly.
“…a group of talent in D Company produced a minstrel show at which (as the
home paper would say) ‘a good time was had by all.’ The good time of the officers was
perhaps due less to their figuring in the actors’ jokes than to the presence at the show and
at a later supper and dance of the ‘telephone girls’ from G.H.Q.” (page 38). To which
Elmer adds in the margins, “Most of the officers got pickled to the gills that night.”
We had as our guests a number of American girls who are members of the Signal
Corps acting as telephone operators at G.H.Q. and our officers. The girls came out here
from ____ especially for the show. The girls wear a sort of uniform dress of dark blue,
white collars, white armband and the dark blue overseas cap of the same type as the
officers wear. The girls must be able to speak French and English equally fluently.

Last Sunday afternoon I went down to the canal, taking a path through a ravine in
the woods and across some open fields. The fields were a wonderful sight, owing to the
enormous quantities of white, yellow, purple, and red wild flowers. Buttercups, daisies,
poppies and many others literally cover some of the meadows. The poppies are a brilliant
red and are quite striking when first seen. You may be interested in hearing that we have
a large bouquet continuously on our writing table in the billet. It certainly seems queer to
see the brilliant flowers, held in a large Karo corn syrup can and backed by an array of
rifles ready for any eventuality, as President Wilson would say.
I have written two or three letters to Ralph Brown and was rather amused to hear
that the Utica postman (whom I never even saw) insists that he delivers my letters to
Ralph personally and then stands around until Ralph reads them to him.
The weather continues to be ideal, bright sunshine each day and not so warm as
two weeks ago, or are we becoming used to it? One effect of the sun-over-seas cap
combination has been to cause our eyebrows to bleach out several shades lighter than
their natural color. I noticed mine for the first time yesterday, and the effect is quite
startling at first sight.
Emily might send me Raoul’s address, but I suppose that there are about ten
chances to one that I will never see Paris. I can hardly realize that if conditions were
different and this was peace times that I could reach Paris in a certain number of hours
from here. It seems just as far away as it did before I ever thought of coming to France.
Besides the soldiers in the guardhouse, I have to keep me company two dogs, both
of which followed us up here from our last billets. One is a very small and very fat little
puppy of mongrel breed who answers to the name of “Cognac,” which the boys
pronounce “Coniac.” The other is Don. Don is a black poodle considerably larger than
our old Bozzie, but just as expert at playing ball as Bozzie was. Don follows the
company everywhere, whether to drill, work or play, and is a good soldier. Our drill field
at ----- was on top of a high hill and about two miles from town. Don followed us all the
way out and back one warm day in April; although he had an injured foot and could only
hobble on three legs. When we finally got back, he just plumped down flat in the middle
of the road completely exhausted, and we had to carry him out of the way of the motor
trucks. Another little dog which the boys called “Feenesh,” was run over by a big Army
limousine and finished.

Thursday June 6th, 1918

We went out on our special work this morning, but came in at noon and will have the
afternoon off as we are going to put on a little practice “show” tonight.
“After a small projector “show”…a much larger one was staged on the night of
June 6, when The 30th gave its first public exhibition of projectors and mortars in action
before an audience which included several generals and many other distinguished guests
from General Headquarters. 
I can’t think of anything more which would be interesting to you and
uninteresting to the censor, so will say goodbye for this time.