Author: Elmer Holmes Van Schoick
Date: April 20, 1918

This is the first opportunity I have had to use the blue envelope. You will
remember that in “Over The Top”, Empey says that “Tommy” uses this envelope for
letters containing all sorts of news except personal and family matters. I’ll try to do
better and keep within the censorship rules. I suppose you read the article in the S.E. Post
of March 16th, I believe on the censorship entitled, “More to be Pitied Than Censored.” It
gives all the censorship rules. A new rule has been put in force which prohibits sending
parcels to soldiers without an enclosed order from the soldier countersigned by his
company commander. In case I need anything in particular, I will send you one of these
orders. Just now, there really is nothing that I particularly want that I cannot obtain here.
Going back to the censorship again, let me know if my letters have been cut up
much. I have tried to stay within the limitations, but may have overstepped the bounds in
some particulars.
The weather continues very cold and cloudy. The fruit trees are in bloom, but the
season seems to advance much more slowly here than at home.
We turned in our campaign hats yesterday and from now on will wear “overseas
caps.” I don’t remember seeing any of these in the States, but all American soldiers in
France, officers and men, must wear them. They are a brimless cloth cap and seem to be
sort of a cross between the jaunty Scotch cap and the ugly German service cap, of which
you have seen pictures. Our captain (he is not the same officer we had in the States) says
they make a man look like a monkey. I suppose we will get used to them gradually. I
was sorry to part with my campaign hat as it was a most serviceable headdress both in
rain and hot, bright sunlight.
Yesterday afternoon we were unloading some trucks which had just come in. One
of the men took a large tin funnel, such as is used to fill the gasoline tanks on the trucks,
and placing it on his head, said, “How would this do for a helmet?” A little five-year-old
French boy who was standing near, ran up, a picture of rage, and striking the soldier with his little fists, tried to snatch the funnel off his head, exclaiming, “Boche, Boche, no
good.” The Boche has planted a hatred for himself in even the little children, but it was
the first time I had seen it crop out so violently. There certainly was but very little
resemblance to the Boche spiked helmet in a tin funnel, but the little kid got the “point”
in a hurry.
There is one point I have meant to mention in previous letters, which I have
neglected. At home you are liable to picture the American soldier as subject to a number
of unusual temptations when he gets to France. From what I know of our own
organization, there is less vice among the men here than there was in the States. There
wasn’t much there, either, in this company. The stories circulated at home that a large
percent of the American forces are in the hospitals with venereal diseases, is an absolute
lie and is probably a part of German propaganda. I wish Father and Howard (Van’s
uncle), as well as Paul (son of Howard, Van’s cousin) would talk it down as much as
possible. A traveling man can do much good in that line.
The same applied in a lesser degree to drunkenness. Just at present our town is
absolutely “dry.” I am only speaking about what I have seen myself, but from my
observations a very overwhelming proportion of the men over here are leading cleaner
lives than they did in civil life. The people at home ought to be as proud of our men in
this respect as they will be later on when we get Fritz on the run.
We are going to lick Germany, lick them neatly, thoroughly, and as quickly as
possible and then back to the best country on earth. I believe that expresses the spirit of
the A.E.F., at least that’s the way we see it here.
I didn’t intend to write this kind of a letter when I started, but I’ve got these things
off my mind and won’t have to write of them again.
Much love to all, especially yourself and Dad.