Author: Elmer Holmes Van Schoick
Location: France 
Date: Easter Sunday, March 31, 1918

It is still raining at intervals, having been at it now for three days, typical April
weather. This being the last day of the month, we had muster roll, but have no other
formation today.
The YMCA is now here in full force. They have taken over a seven-room house
and have the usual conveniences of reading and writing rooms, Victrola and canteen,
where they have hot chocolate, sweet chocolate, French cookies, and tobacco for sale at
prices which are much lower than those charged for the same articles in the cafes here.
I went to church (that is, to the battalion service) this morning at 8:30 a.m. It was
a communion service, the Episcopal form being used. Our chaplain is evidently of that
denomination. The service was held in the YMCA house.
Yesterday afternoon the company marched to town where we were issued our
respirators and gas masks. You have probably seen pictures of soldiers wearing the
former. They certainly give a man a particularly inhuman appearance.
From The Story of the First Gas Regiment: “While the First Battalion was at the
front during March and April, Companies C and D had been spending their first two
weeks at Humes (near Langres) in becoming adjusted to their new quarters and in
continuing the usual drills and ‘hikes.’ By March 26 all the company officers but three
had been ordered away for duty elsewhere, chiefly for gas training at Helfaut. Within the
next ten days, the battalion had been strengthened by the arrival of [officers] all of whom
had previously been in training with the First Battalion. With this infusion of
comparative veterans, training became more active and specific. During this period all
the men received their gas masks, and at the Gas School at Langres attended lectures and
drills in gas defense.” 
We returned to our billets in time for retreat and mess. Last night we had a real
treat. A concert was given by the Oliver Concert Co., (consisting) of a violinist, baritone,
contralto and accompanist, and they were all artists in their line. The YMCA concerts we
had at Fort Myer were usually very mediocre, but I suppose it doesn’t pay to bring any
but the best talent over here.
We have a town crier in this village, who when anything of local importance
occurs, comes down the street, stops, and beats his drum until he has an audience of three
or four and then reads his news in a loud voice in good old Pilgrim fashion. The crier is
an old man, but occasionally he sends a very small boy out in his place, the drum being
very near as large as the boy.
A little girl, not nearly as big as Alice (Alice Van Schoick Audet, Van Schoick’s
niece), is the village shepherdess. She has a large, black dog, and together they take the
flock out every morning and tend to them all day. Yesterday we passed her as we were
returning from town. It was raining, but she had a large cape over her head and was
patiently standing beside a tree, while the dog kept the sheep off the road and also off the
ploughed ground. There are no fences along the roads or between the fields in France.
There is a large stone tank here around which the women gather to wash their
clothes. The blocks of stone, which form the sides of the tank are rough and serve the
purpose of a scrub board. The tank is fed by spring water piped down from the hills.
There are six or seven hydrants on the streets where one can get this water, and as it is
always ice cold, we have no lack of drinking water.
Friday we marched to a village some miles distant where there is a great dam
across the valley, forming a large, artificial lake. This lake is surrounded by pine woods,
and I was struck by the resemblance to the lake country of Wisconsin.
I received another letter from Ottawa yesterday. It came via Ft. Myer and was
postmarked March 7th. Incoming mail is not censored, or at least these letters had not
been opened.