Author: Elmer Holmes Van Schoick
Location: France
Date: Sunday June 9th, 1918

Saturday night is the ideal time to receive mail, and we were so fortunate as to get
a large consignment last night. I again carried off the honors for this billet, receiving nine
in all, including your letters #12 and #13, Edna’s, Howard’s, and five from friends in
Ottawa. The clippings were all read with interest.
The news in Howard’s letter of the big wheat crop in prospect and the big
increase in hogs available was particularly encouraging. We get lots of bacon in our
mess; in fact, the mess sergeant tells me that 33 and one-third percent of our meat ration
is bacon. Bacon and boiled potatoes, coffee, bread and syrup are one of the staple
breakfasts.
I’ll put in a joke here for the same reason that the average preacher interpolates
them in his sermons. The “Stars and Strips” is responsible for this one.
A soldier appeared at a field dressing station with a wound in his chin. The
doctor said, “How’d you get that?” The soldier said, “I was leaning against a barrage
when it lifted, and I fell against the trench.”
I’ll keep the four-and-seven-leaf clovers which Alice sent me for good luck; a
person can’t have too much of that over here.
One of the clippings mentioned the work of the Salvation Army. I haven’t been
near enough the fighting yet to meet up with the S.A., but all the boys who have been
upon the line are loud in their praises of the work the Salvation Army is doing there.
They give more freely and more generously than the YMCA; although, this mustn’t be
considered a knock on the latter.
Edna’s mention of the airplane you saw reminds me that we see many of them
every clear day. Sometimes they are so high as to be invisible, and we only know of their
presence by the hum of the motor. A certain number of machines are housed very close
to our village, and I have had several opportunities of examining them at close range. I
certainly wish that I could have qualified as an aviator, as it is the greatest game of all.
The published letter you sent written by Corporal Bill interested me as I went
through many of the same experiences. At Fort Myer we used to sweep the floor, dust
the lockers, etc., then sweep the floor again, then dust the lockers and so on, sometimes
as many as twelve times in one day. Here it is a little different, but everything must be as
clean as possible under the circumstances.
Streets must be swept every day, and the billets, of course, are always kept clean
outside as well as in. Then on Saturday morning we all pitch in and clean things up
thoroughly for the regular inspection. We have very few sick men, and I think this
scrupulous cleanliness is largely responsible for our good health record.
I surely hope that Father’s injured toe heals rapidly; although, I don’t believe that
the enforced rest from “active service” can do him anything but good. I know how much
you appreciate his company and Emily’s after your long, hard winter when you were
alone so much.
I don’t suppose that I will be able to find time or material for a separate letter to
Edna, but I know she will get to read this. I sincerely hope that the results of Paul’s work will prove entirely satisfactory; although, I realize that he is starting out under somewhat
difficult conditions this year.
I didn’t care much for the way my letters were mishandled by the Pantagraph, or
were they really as bad at the reprint? Of course, these letters are yours to do with as you
see fit, but I would suggest that very little of what I write is either suitable for publication
or of interest to the public in general.

Wednesday, June 12th 1918
Tonight at 11 p.m. I will have completed my first six months’ service in the Army. The
time has gone very rapidly, but at the same time it seems ages since I was a civilian.
I went to the dentist this morning to have my teeth examined and cleaned. Our
dentist is a very conscientious young man and a good workman, but he was unable to find
anything wrong with my teeth. I am sure that had it been in civil life my dentist would
have dug and scraped and drilled about twenty dollars’ worth. There are quite a few
advantages in Army life, which do not appear on the surface.
I believe I wrote you about the French soldier who lives here and who left for
Africa shortly after we arrived. He returned last week and is now busily engaged in
helping with the haying. He was dressed in a very fantastic uniform, a red fez on his
head, blue jacket, and trousers ornamented with gold braid. Both the trousers and the
jacket being cut like a Turk’s or Arab’s. He is a sergeant and had been engaged in
drilling some French colonial troops. These African troops can usually speak French as
well as their own lingo. One of the standard jokes over here concerns an Alabama Negro
in the infantry, who remarked about one of these colonials as follows: “Dat sure is the
most ignerrant nigger Ah evah did see. He cain’t talk his own language.”

Thursday, June 13th 1918
We were out last night and I didn’t get to bed until about two a.m. this morning.
Got up in time for breakfast at 8:30 and have been snoozing off and on ever since.
I receive the “Literary Digest” regularly, but I have been unable to make
connections with the “Saturday Evening Post” lately. I wish you would send in a
subscription for me to the Post, having it addressed the same way you address my letters.
This will furnish me with about all the reading matter I will have time for.
I am hoping that the mail will come in again in a day or two and in the meantime
will start this letter on its long journey westward. With much love to all.