Author: Elmer Holmes Van Schoick
April 30th, 1918

I have just come off guard after a tour of duty lasting 28 hours. I had it pretty
easy, however, as my post was only a night post, and I was on duty only from six to
seven p.m. and eleven p.m. to one a.m. The balance of the time I loafed, except for a few
hours this afternoon when I “chased prisoners.” This is not as exciting as it sounds, as it
consists of following three or four of our men around with fixed bayonets while they
clean the village streets. The prisoners are usually those who are inclined to imbibe a
little too much “vin rouge” or something stronger and find themselves in the guardhouse
as a result.
The YMCA is giving a movie show in its tent tonight, but I was not much
interested; although, it has been months since I have been to the movies.
The company is still hard at work moving manure piles from front yards to the
fields, making little ones out of big ones, i.e., breaking rocks, for walks, trimming hedges,
etc., etc. It seems to be a rather round-about way to lick the Boche, but it’s all necessary
and to use our captain’s favorite expression, “It’s just gotta be done, men” – with the
accent on the “gotta.”
I went to the church service Sunday evening and was much refreshed by the
chaplain’s little talk, which had to do with loyalty to ourselves and our regiment.
We now have quite a few of the men here who have been in active service, and it
is very heartening to talk to them as they have done the things which we will do later and
have not suffered much in doing them. They went up on the line without being nearly as
well trained as we will be in methods both defensive and offensive.
From The First Gas Regiment: “The day after its arrival at La Ville-aux-Bois the
Provisional Battalion…was joined by the First Battalion, fresh from the British front; and
for nearly four weeks they were quartered together. Life on a regimental scale was then,
for the first time, possible. Companies C and D had their first opportunity to rub
shoulders with ‘veterans,’ and to absorb, in any quantity their credulity allowed, stories of
adventures and achievements on the British front. The faint air of superiority easily
pardonable in young ‘veterans’ seldom prevented cordial good feeling among the four
companies; and sharing experiences as well as receiving instruction was a stimulus to the
men of C and D.” 
Van Schoick later added to the book’s margins, “They were all heroes to us then.
But only for a little while.”
I heard the regimental band practicing yesterday afternoon, and the music sure did
sound good; although, I must admit that they showed that they needed practice.
We already have a reading and writing room opened up here, and the YMCA will
be open in a day or two. We are going to have movies in the Y tent later on.
We have a good deal of fun with the French people the first few days we were
here. About the only French word I am real sure of is “oui.” An excited Frenchman
comes up and talks volubly for a minute or two. We listen, not comprehending a word,
then nod our heads, and someone says, “Oui, oui, Monsieur, you bet we’ll all go home as
fast as we can as soon as the war is over.” Then with perfectly serious faces we go on
with our work and the Frenchman goes away, both parties being satisfied.
While there were only a few of us here, we bought eggs and had some very good
dishes in addition to our Army rations. We had rice pudding made with eggs and figs,
and real pancakes, ‘nough said.
Much love to all, especially yourself and Dad.