Author: Elmer Holmes Van Schoick
Location: France
Date:  Sunday June 23rd 1918

This is a bright, cool Sunday morning, but I don’t feel quite as chipper as usual as
I was on guard all night last night, acting as corporal, and got very little sleep. But I’ll
make up for that deficiency tonight.
It has been very cool here the last week, and yesterday when we were inspected in
our ‘going away outfits’ (full packs, tin hats, respirators, rifles, etc., ad infinitum) we
wore our winter mackinaws and were not uncomfortably warm, at that.
The next time we move I guess I will have to worry along without my barracks
bag, which means that I’ll carry everything I am liable to need on my back. This is quite
a blessing in a way, as a barracks bag corresponds to an attic or a spare room in a house,
in that you keep a lot of things in your bag, which you never use but which you hesitate
to leave behind or throw away. I have carried things half way across the States, over the
Atlantic and across a good part of France and never used them at all. Of course, I never
carried my bag on my back or anything like that, but still I have had to handle it around a
good deal. Our bags will probably be stored here so I will get mine again sometime later.
The mail hasn’t come in yet. It is over two weeks since any of us have heard
from home, which reminds me that when we are so distant from each other and the means
of communication is so slow and uncertain, that we all must take for our motto, “No news
is good news.” I’ll bet I get a raft of it when it does come.
Before me on the wall is a blue print made from a map of this town [La Ville-aux-
Bois], which reminds me of a story; it is true, too. Every town where Yankee troops are
billeted has a town major who is a lieutenant or captain in the US Army. His duties are to
arrange with the French “Maire” to billet the soldiers and to adjust with the Maire all the
differences between the troops and the civilians. When we first came up here one of our
lieutenants, who was to act as town major, went to the mayor and asked him if he had a
map of the village. The mayor replied that he had a map, but that it wasn’t quite up-to-
date and that some of the newer buildings were not shown. Upon examination the map
proved to be 102 years old, and no corrections or additions had been made to it since
1866. And the best part of it is that the map was just about complete as only two
buildings had been built since 1866. Imagine trying to use a map of Bloomington which
had not been corrected for fifty years. This village, like probably ninety-nine percent of
all those in France, has its La Rue Grande, along both sides of which for about one-half
mile the houses and barns of the town are clustered.
We have about sixteen prisoners in the guardhouse here, all soldiers who are in
for minor offenses against the discipline of the Army. They are not allowed to have
wine, tobacco, reading matter or food in the guardhouse, so they try their wits against
those of the guards to smuggle such contraband articles in. Last night two of the men were allowed to go out under custody of a guard to fill three canteens with water. They
went to one of the water bags and filled their canteens in the presence of the guard, then
asked the guard to take them on to the latrine, which he did. In the meantime, having left
their canteens by the water bag, a friend of theirs who had recently been released from
the brig, filled two of the canteens with red wine instead of the water which had been in
them, leaving the third canteen full of water.
When they brought their canteens back to the guardhouse, the man with the one
full of water presented his for inspection first, while the other prisoners tried to slip in
unobtrusively. The corporal of the guard insisted on examining all three canteens,
however, and as a consequence we have about two quarts of “evidence as exhibit A.”
The two “wise men” are languishing in solitary confinement today in the cellar of an
empty house and are subsisting on bread and water, temporarily at least.
Most of the men now in the guardhouse are from other companies, as our captain,
knowing his men, has stated that any man who is sent to the brig from D Company will
be transferred out of the company and as a consequence will be left here when we go to
the front. I don’t suppose a German soldier would consider that anything but a reward,
but to our men it is the worst punishment that can be meted out.

Monday, June 24th 1918
I didn’t have time to finish this letter yesterday so will write a few more lines
today just to fill out the page. I have been sitting here quite ten minutes trying to think of
something to write about but haven’t succeeded, so will say goodbye and will write in a
day or two. With much love to all.
“By the middle of June Companies C and D had been brought up to full strength
through drafts upon Company Q…On June 26th a regimental order constituted
Companies B and D as the First Battalion with Major Watson in command, and
Companies A and C as the Provisional Battalion with Major Crawford in command. To
begin active work with Company A, Company C left La Ville-aux-Bois on June 22nd for
the camp at Lagney; and on July 2nd Company D set out to join Company B in the lively
sector behind Chateau-Thierry. The period of overseas training was at length concluded,
and a second fighting battalion was ready to take the field.” 
Elmer adds, “I had left ahead of the company on June 26th. We had a fine trip via
motor truck and camped two nights on the road.”