Author: Elmer Holmes Van Schoick
Date: April 28, 1918

Last Monday a small party of us came up to this village to get things in shape for
the rest of the men.
“During the time of this April training, steps had been successfully taken by Regimental
Headquarters to secure for the use of the 30th a large area east of Chaumont, part of which
had already been assigned for use as a Gas Service Experimental Field. A village in that
area, La Ville-aux-Bois, was assigned to the First and Provisional Battalions.” ( page 34)
In the book’s margins, Van writes, “I was sent up with a detail a week ahead of the rest to
clean up this place. It certainly needed cleaning.”
It was noon when we got here and raining as usual, but after we had a good cup of
hot coffee and a sandwich or two, things began to brighten up a little. It certainly is
remarkable how much a soldier comes to depend on coffee. I drink about three pints
daily and with no bad effect at all.
By evening we had a field kitchen set up and the cooks had a good meal ready for
us. We also had cleaned out a big barn for our billet and had our bed sacks filled and
were well fixed for the night. We worked hard all week cleaning up the town, and this
afternoon I am off duty for the first time since last Sunday. The rest of the men got in
Friday night, and we are all very comfortably fixed by this time.
This village [La Ville-aux-Bois] is about the same size as the last one we were at,
but being off the railroad line is a much, more quiet place. We are the first American
troops to be billeted here so we had a big job cleaning streets, draining low places, etc. It
is about five miles from here to a city of considerable size. I have been to town twice,
but each time it was with a truck to get supplies, so have not had time to look around
much.
After the company got here, I was changed to another billet, also in a barn. It is
really better than the one I was in earlier in the week as there are no leaks in the roof. In
the former billet, there were several places, which were always wet when it rained, and as
it rains almost every day, a tight roof is quite a convenience. Thursday morning when I
began to dress, I found that one of my shoes had been acting as a cistern and was over
half full of water, which had dripped in during the night. As we all have three pairs of
field shoes, it was simply a case of digging another pair out of my barracks bag.
On Wednesday I got your letter #1, which you wrote before we left the States. I
also received a couple of magazines and a small box of cake from Lida Ashley. The cake
was mailed March 3rd, but was still edible; although, in rather a compressed condition.
Last Sunday morning we had a football game between the first and second
platoons of our company. I played left guard for the first platoon, and we won 18 to
nothing. There were no casualties; although, I half expected to be one as I never played
in a real football game before. I don’t believe we will play again as it is time for baseball
now.