Author: Elmer Holmes Van Schoick
Location: France 
Date: July 8th, 1918

This has been another one of those clear, hot days of which we have had so many
lately. If it was always summertime and dry, life in the Army wouldn’t be half bad. We
have not had very much to do since we came up here, so I have had opportunities to
explore some of the surrounding villages; although, it has been too hot to do a great deal
of voluntary hiking.
Saturday afternoon I walked to a little town about six kilometers (a kilo. is five-
eighths of a mile) from here. The road led through a pleasant country of fields, patches
of park-like woodland and meadows, where the peasant folk were still busy with their
haying. We passed two country homes or chateaux, each set in the midst of a thick
growth of trees and shrubs and the whole surrounded by a stone wall at least ten feet
high. In times such as these, such homes or estates are either closed up altogether or used
for military purposes.
Going on farther we followed the road as it curved down into a beautiful little
valley, where we could count three or four small towns, besides the one we were to visit.
We then came to a park, just outside the town, and found that it was being occupied by a
number of French cavalrymen. I believe that this park was also a private estate as it
contained a large residence, besides immense stables, a conservatory, a fine flower and
vegetable garden, etc. After “bon jouring” the soldiers, we came into the village, which
was decorated with the American and French colors, a holdover from the “Fourth,” I
suppose.
We were pretty thirsty by this time so we made for the village well, only to find it
surmounted by the sign which read “Eau Non-Potable,” whereas we were looking for
“Eau Potable.” We sat down in front of the café, which had a notice on the door that it
would not be open until seventeen-thirty p.m. (it was then about fifteen p.m.) and pretty
soon along came a French soldier. Now, we frequently talk to the French in English, and
they shrug their shoulders and reply in French. And as neither knows what the other
says, we both smile, say “bon jour” and part.
So I said to this soldier, “Say, pardner, could you tell us where we could get a
drink of water?” And must to my surprise, he replied, “I beg your pardon, what did you
say?” I couldn’t have been more surprised if a post had begun to talk, but I managed to
repeat my question. He was a little astonished at anyone wanting water for drinking
purposes, which proved he was a true Frenchman, but he finally called an old lady,
explained our wants to her, and she led us to a spring about one-fourth mile away where
we finally quenched our thirst. This soldier talked English, not American, and there is a
vast difference between the two languages.
We also met another soldier a la Francais who insisted on showing his wounds,
removing what garments were necessary to make the exhibition a success. He had been
shot through the stomach, arm, shoulder, and leg, was slightly drunk and wished to sell us
one of his medals of valor and a leather pocketbook, which he claimed to have obtained
from a German officer at Verdun. We finally broke away from him and started back to
our billets, which we reached in time for mess.

My duties as corporal don’t weigh very heavily on me, and I rather enjoy the
authority and responsibility connected with the job; although, there isn’t a great amount
of either. I have a fine squad, all big six-footers like myself and good workers when
there is real work to be done. The squads may be rearranged later on, but at present I
have the first squad of the first platoon.
Front rank.
#1 A machinist from Massachusetts.
#2 A bacteriologist from South Dakota.
#3 A chemist (very young) from Cleveland, Ohio.
#4 Myself, from Illinois.
Rear rank.
#1 A lumberman from Minnesota and Wisconsin.
#2 A Finnish farmer from New York.
#3 A structural ironworker from Connecticut.
#4 A chemist from Pennsylvania.
This squad is probably a fair sample of the variety of professions, trades, and
residences throughout our company. The war is certainly going to do a great deal to help
Americans to get acquainted with each other, no matter how far apart their lives may
have been before the war.
No mail has come in since early last week, but I don’t think there will be any long
delays again. The ban on packages has been lifted, and I may send an order later on for
some things which I may want. I understand that nothing can be sent without an order
signed by my company commander.
Things have been pretty quiet along this part of the front for the past few days.
We hear the guns only at night, and they don’t disturb us much even then. I slept through
quite a lively shelling bee a few nights ago; although, many of the boys were up watching
the gun flashes and listening to the whistle of the shells which were dropping some
distance from us.
Keep well and don’t worry about me, and I’ll do the same.