Author: Elmer Holmes Van Schoick
Location: France
Date: July 13th, 1918

I have a few minutes of leisure before it is time to fall in for inspection so will use
the time in this way.
The mail came last Tuesday, and I received a number of letters, the most
important of which were yours #14 and #17 and Edna’s dated May 24th and June 5th. All
the clippings came through, too, and were read with the usual interest. I won’t feel bad if
Edna fails to write each week, as I know how busy she is, but if she will write whenever
she has the time and the energy and is in the mood, I won’t feel a bit slighted. I think I
have received all of your letters, the one numbered 14 being the only one which was
delayed. I didn’t hear from Emily but still have hopes.
I received a long letter from Pearle Wilson, which I enjoyed reading and which I
have already answered.
Please let me know if you have not received the insurance policy by this time, and
I will take the matter up through the proper channels.
I think I have acknowledged the receipt of the little box of Mentholatum. I was
interested in reading the old letter, which you enclosed. My penmanship is even worse
than it was years ago.
I think that Father did right in turning down the copper proposition. It might be
okay, but he wouldn’t be sure of it, and I should think that at this time only very safe and
sane investments would be tempting. When I was in Colorado last fall, I saw whole
mountainsides pitted with holes, which had been started for mines, and which had failed
to strike the right kind of ore. For every successful mine there must have been one
hundred failures, and I was astonished at the amount of money which must have been
sunk in those barren cliffs.
I think I have found out why the French cultivate their fields in curved lines
instead of straight. In the first place, they only do this in sections where the soil is very
thin and the country is hilly. It is done to conserve the soil, to prevent it being washed
away by heavy rains. If the land were plowed in straight furrows, the water would rush
down the furrows with great velocity, carrying a heavy burden of soil with it, and the
hillside would soon be barren. The curved lines keep the water from moving so fast, and
consequently the soil is not washed away as it would be in the other case. This is my
own explanation, and it may be all wrong.
I was amused at what you quoted from Empey’s book regarding the advisability
of greeting a Frenchman with “Vive la France.” Two of us met an old man trudging
along a road one day, and I said, “Bon jour, Monsieur, vive la France.” He looked at me
a minute and then said, “A bas la France, vive la Belgique.” You see, he was a Belgian
and wanted us to know it. Then recognizing us for American soldiers he became all
smiles and said, “Vive la Amerique,” and friendly relations were again established. The
Belgians seem to consider themselves the especial protégés of Americans and are rather
inclined to be a little jealous of the privilege.
The clippings from Leslie’s, which Edna sent are still making the rounds of the
billet.
We have been out several nights lately, hiking and putting some finishing touches
on our special training. The war seems to come much closer at night. Sometimes a
whole day will go by and we don’t hear a shot fired, but the guns always get busy after
dark. The air is full of rumbling and booming, and the sky is lighted from horizon to
horizon with flashes, which are just about like heat lightning in appearance. We can also
see the red, green, and blue signal lights, which look like Roman candles, and an
occasional “Very” light or star shell. This continues all night long but usually dies out
after the sun is well up.
I have written out an order for some small articles, and it is now awaiting the
captain’s signature. If I get it in time, I will enclose it in this letter; if not, in the next.
You will have no trouble getting the razor blades; be sure they are for the “Ever-ready”
razor. Two of the small twenty-five cent jars of Mentholatum will be sufficient. In
regard to the candy, you can use your own judgment, but each piece should be wrapped
separately. Hershey’s nut bars or something similar would be very acceptable. Any kind
of cocoanut candy would also go mighty good.

Would it be too much trouble for Emily to send me a copy of the poem which
contains the lines about “The walrus and the carpenter?” One of our men is quite an
expert at memorizing verse, and I would like to have him add this to his repertoire.
Among the things now being issued to us which are sort of extras are matches,
candles, soap, and tobacco. A man can really get along very comfortably in the Army
overseas without any money at all. But now and then a little cash comes in handy. Will
close now with much love to all.

The Chateau-Thierry Offensive begins.
“On July 15 events took a new turn, and the plot thickened. Early that morning,
after several hours of intense bombardment clearly audible in our villages, the Germans
began a drive, which they planned to make their greatest and perhaps their last.
Assaulting heavily at many points between Chateau-Thierry and Rheims, they succeeded
in crossing the Marne in several places; and the menace to Paris grew temporarily greater
than ever. The following day Battalion Headquarters was elated by orders, long awaited,
which gave clearance to both companies to undertake two projector attacks from an
emplacement behind Vaux and from two positions near the edge of Belleau Wood…Final
preparations immediately began, and we seemed on the verge of action. In little more
than twenty-four hours, however, our ‘show’ was ‘washed out,’ for the great Franco-
American counter-offensive had begun, and the hope of finding any stationary Boches
had vanished.” 
Van notes: The hard-hitting doughboys beat our heroes out of a job. Personally, I hoped
the Boche would never stop running.