Author: Elmer Holmes Van Schoick
Location: France 
Date: May 18th, 1918

I received your letter #7 postmarked April 22nd, yesterday, so you can see that the
mails are speeding up. I hope that our mail home is making equally good time. I also
received Edna’s letter dated April 24th, as well as seven letters from Ottawa friends. I
certainly have been fortunate to have received so much mail since I have been overseas,
but as I have not been able to answer every letter or even half of them I fear the mails will
not be so generous in the future. I know that Edna will consider this an answer to hers.
Several have written asking me to send requests for certain articles which they wish to
send me. But I haven’t sent any so far as I really have, or can get, everything I really
need here. And after all we appreciate letters more than anything else folks back home
could send us.
I was interested in what you wrote about the old letters. I don’t remember the
incidents you mentioned except in a sort of vague way. So much has happened in the last
ten years; that is, to me personally, that it seems even longer than that since I was a
callow freshman at U. of I.
I’m afraid I’ll have a little trouble wearing my old clothes when I get home, as I
am so much heavier. But I suppose they can be adjusted, and “all-wool” clothes are very
valuable articles at present and probably will be for years.
I dreamt last night that I was home and was telling you all about our trip on the
good ship [Agamemnon]. I told you that the main dining room where we had our mess
was big enough to hold our whole house at home. I felt quite provoked when Howard
questioned my word, but after waking up this morning I decided that I had exaggerated
the size a little. It certainly would be great to write all about names, places and our
duties, but that would leave little to talk about after the war.
Have you received two policies for $5,000.00 each from the government? If not,
let me know in your next letter, as I am insured for $10,000.00 and am paying $6.90 per
month on that amount.
France is at last living up to its name as a sunny country. It has been hot and clear
all week, and the sun beats down as it does in July and August back home. Summer is coming on fast, and the country is as beautiful as a picture. Around here the hills are not
very high, and the landscape is a little like that in Illinois, except that there are no fences,
telegraph poles, houses or barns. All the farmers live in villages and go back and forth to
their fields. There are a number of thick woods in this vicinity, which lend a pleasing
variety to the landscape.
These woods are the haunts of wild boars. On account of the damage done to the
crops by these animals, which come out into the fields at night, the government pays a
bounty of 50 francs per head. The natives claim to have killed eighteen near this village
last winter. I have seen a little wild boar pig following a couple of Yanks just like a dog
would. He was the mascot of a certain company of Engineers.
We are still wearing our O.D. uniforms, heavy underwear and heavy sox, and I
understand that we will wear them all summer. This sounds a whole lot more
uncomfortable than it really is. For our work, heavy clothes are almost a necessity the
year around. We have been doing some night work and will have more and more of it as
time goes on.
From The First Gas Regiment: “By May 21st, preparations, both at the post and at
the front, were so far completed that the First Battalion received orders to move, and the
following day the battalion set out in trucks for the Toul sector of the American front.
The 30th was now ready for independent offensive action.
“After the departure of the elder unit, the Provisional – Van’s unit – resumed its
solitary career, and the work of instruction went on. That same night the first class in
Stokes mortars finished its course by holding what one member termed ‘Commencement
Exercises’ in the form of a successful ‘show,’ giving the men their first experience of the
tense moments as ‘zero’ hour approaches.” (pp. 36-37)
I don’t understand your reference to a code name for a soldier. I never heard of
such a thing. We each have an identification number on our tags, and the U.S. Army post
offices are known by number. But if I have a code name, I never heard of it.
Today being Saturday, we cleaned up our section of the village, had a bath and
stood inspection this afternoon. It seems like an endless task to keep these little towns
clean, but we do keep them clean by being on the job all the time.
I suppose Emily’s school is out by this time and imagine that she is not feeling
sorry that her time is up. When I get home, we can compare American and French
methods of farming, as we have both had opportunity to observe the respective methods.
For some mysterious reason, these peasants do not plow or cultivate their fields in
straight lines, but in long curves (illustrating in the letter) like this or this. I will try to
find out the reason some day when I have nothing to do.
The family that occupies the house section of the barn where the first platoon is
billeted consists of a mother and two little boys and a hired girl, who also cultivates the
farm and tends to the cattle, etc. The husband, a soldier, of course, was home when we
first came but has since left for Algiers. He was a prisoner in Germany for two years and
is now on light duty in Africa. The kids are very fond of the Americans, and they have
already learned to swear fluently in English. Unfortunately, the swear words seem to be
the easiest of any to learn. It has just occurred to me that I don’t know any of their
names, family or given, except the hired girl, whom the boys call Rosy.
I enjoyed reading the clippings, which you enclosed. I always give them to the
other boys after I am through with them. It is surprising as to how little we really know about the big battles here, as the foreign editions are much more closely censored than the
American papers and contain little but the official communiqués. But, of course, what
interests us most is home news.
I am in the best of health, but have had a little trouble with my eyes owing to the
bright sun and no hat brim for protection. When we are out working, I put a card or
envelope above my eyes so that it shades them, and that helps a whole lot.
Will close now, as I have been scribbling long enough. I know this will find you
and Dad, as well as the rest of the home folks, in the best of health.