Author: Elmer Holmes Van Schoick
Location: France 
Date: Saturday June 29, 1918

I am under the impression that I got away from my last billet just in time to miss
the mail and that now I will have to wait until it catches up with us, which should be
sometime next week. It is three weeks today since we had a real live mail call.
We had quite an interesting trip to this place. We came via auto truck and had a
good opportunity to do a lot of “rubbernecking” on the way over. We bivouacked a
couple of nights, sleeping in our little pup tents and cooking our meals on the little
portable field kitchen. It was quite an interesting experience as soldiers now days don’t
do very much camping out.
We received a very cordial reception from the people along the route. The
American soldiers seem to be getting more popular all the time over here. The first night
we camped, all the children and dogs as well as some of the old folks came out to sit
along the side of the road and watch the process. I felt as if I was the member of a circus
troupe as the kids showed as much interest and seemed to be having as good a time as an
American kid would have when a circus came to town.
We have a dandy billet here, one of the best we have struck yet. Needless to say
it is a barn, but a clean barn with plastered stone walls and a concrete floor. There are no
animals in the same section or even very near us so that helps a whole lot, especially in
hot weather. This barn is part of a series of barns, hay sheds and dwelling houses, which
are built around three sides of a large courtyard. They are all built in one solid block, and
the forth side is enclosed by a stone wall and an iron gate. The whole group of buildings
forms a little farm community, which will accommodate three separate families and all
their possessions under what is practically one roof.
To go back to the trip again – we were fortunate enough to camp on two different
occasions close to cities of medium size. I spent two interesting evenings exploring these
towns; although, I will never find any so interesting to me as the first two or three I
visited after arriving in France.
Two airplanes have just sailed overhead toward the front. The first one had no
markings that I could see while the second showed the Allied colors and appeared to be
pursuing the first, as I could hear the sound of machine gun firing. We hear the buzz of
motors every few minutes now, but usually the planes are so high that I cannot pick them
out against the bright, blue sky.
On our way here we passed several places where German prisoners are kept at
work. They seem to be very contented with their lot, and from the small number of
guards I saw, I should say that it isn’t much of a job to keep them from escaping.
We have new overseas caps now, brimless, but much jauntier and of better
material than the others were. In one of the cities we came through, I met some troops
who were still wearing the campaign hats. As usual, the first question I asked was, “How
long have you been over?” The reply was, “Oh, about three weeks, but you guys haven’t
been here that long as they hadn’t begun to issue those caps yet when we left the States.”
The campaign hat and the canvas legging are the badge of the rookie in France, but the
lad hadn’t been around enough to find out such important details.
Our road led through part of one of the famous battlefields of this war. The only
sign that the armies had ever struggled there were the little wooden crosses scattered here
and there through the fields of wheat and oats and in the meadows. Each grave seemed to
be enclosed by a little fence of woven branches and twigs, and in some cases the soldier’s
cap still hung, weather-beaten, on the little cross. I am more than a little impressed by the
wonderful, cheerful spirit shown by the French people. No one goes around with a long
face, and even the widows in deep mourning always have a smile and a “’Bon Jour,
Monsieur” for the Yankee soldier. Every bit of land seems to be under cultivation;
although, there is only the labor of the old men, women, and children to keep the wheels
turning.
There must be some good in war when it brings out the noble qualities of a people
as it has done in the case of the French. If America only does one-half as well as France
has done, we will win a swift, complete victory.

I know that this will find you and Dad well and in good spirits. I feel fine, eat all
I can get hold of, and can sleep anyplace at almost any time. From what I have seen and
heard and read, I see no good reason why I shouldn’t feel very optimistic about coming
through safe and sound. Of course, accidents will happen, but if a fellow plays the game
strictly according to the rules and doesn’t try to run counter to orders, he has a splendid
chance of coming home ”jake.” Much love to all.
From The Story of the First Gas Regiment: “By July 3rd, the First Battalion had
reached the famous sector behind Chateau-Thierry. Battalion Headquarters, after ten
days at Saacy, was moved to La Ferte-sous-Jouarre; Company B was billeted at
Montmenard, and Company D, some 1500 yards distant at Rougeville. The nearest front
line, held at first by the Second and later by the Twenty-sixth Division, was about nine
miles away. We had no sooner been lodged in this busy neighborhood than Battalion
Headquarters opened its campaign to secure us a field for action…Partly, however,
because of the unstable and informal condition of the front, partly because the probability
of both a German offensive and an Allied counter-offensive was in the air, and partly
because plans for gas warfare seemed to many to be novel and even trivial, no practical
opening was given us; and two weeks slipped by with our powers regretfully unused.
“There was little to be done to fill the time. The men, who naturally chafed at the
lack of opportunities for which they had so long and so carefully been trained, had to
occupy themselves with cleaning up the villages, undergoing gas-mask drills, playing
games, taking ‘hikes,’ bathing in the Marne, and occasionally digging projectors into the
back orchard and solemnly exhuming them again…That others were at war close by was
brought home to us by much varied aerial activity, by shelling once in a while very near
to B Company’s village, and by an air raid on La Ferte, where the railroad station was
totally ruined by bombs.” 
Elmer adds in the margins, “I helped clean up this mess. The Boche came over
in captured British planes, and, flying low, made talcum powder out of the stones in the
building. It certainly was a total ruin, as were a couple of poor French soldiers who were
in it at the time.”