Author: Elmer Holmes Van Schoick
Location: France 
Date: July 4th, 1918

I am celebrating the Fourth by being on duty all day, having gone on guard at
eight p.m. yesterday, but as there is not much to look after I think I will have time to
write a page or two.
The mail finally arrived on July 2nd, and I received your letters #15 and #16,
Howard’s fourth letter, and the clippings you both so kindly sent. The “Stars and
Stripes” promises us that we will have better service again now as two of the mail liners
were being repaired. I expect there will be delays from time to time, but all my mail
seems to reach me eventually so I haven’t any kick coming. I fare better than many of
the lads in the matter of letters, etc. I was busy when the mail came in and asked one of
the boys where the sergeant was with the letters. He replied, “He’s up at the other end of
the street, and he’s getting round-shouldered from carrying yours around with him.”

I hardly think that Howard will be called on for service, even next year. But there
are so many jobs in the Army, for all sorts of men, that he would find it no trouble to
locate one where he could use his business experience. Men of his age will certainly not
be called for active service when there are still so many young men in “bomb-proof” jobs
both in the States and over here.
I was glad to hear that Father’s toe was healed and that he was able to get back to
the service again. I haven’t read all the clippings yet, but am saving them for this
evening after I am off duty.
I know Emily has had some funny experiences in the newspaper office and would
appreciate hearing from her when she has time to write.
Some Negro troops from Georgia were working with pick and shovel at one of the
base ports in France. It was very warm, and suddenly one big coon who had been
working very hard threw down his shovel and said, “I’se Russia, I’se free.”
I was given the rating of corporal on July 1st so in the future you can address my
mail accordingly, until I lose the stripes or gain more.
About the only edibles we can buy here are eggs and milk. Eggs sell for forty
centimes (eight cents) each, and milk is twenty-five centimes a cupful. Our cups hold
about a pint and a half. We get a mixture of French and American rations here, but have
been very well fed so far. The French army bread is not as good or palatable as the war
bread which the civilians use. It is baked very hard and dry, and it requires a sound set of
teeth to get away with it. The boys claim it was baked before the war and would have
been used for building material instead of stone, had it not been for the present need of
bread. Soaked in coffee or milk it is quite good.
We have no YMCA service here but are hoping that they will catch up with us
soon.
Last night the artillery was very active again. Being up part of the night on guard
duty, I had a good opportunity to hear the guns and see the flashes. Some of the big
shells fell in the valley below us, but not near enough to suit the boys who are beginning
to think that this particular sector is not as exciting as they were led to believe it would
be. I suppose we will all get enough of it, however, when we really get to work.
The most interesting things we see are airplanes, which fill the sky with their
buzzing on every clear day, and the smoke from the anti-aircraft guns. The anti-aircraft
shells in bursting leave a little powder puff ball of white smoke floating in the air, which
gradually expands until it assumes quite large proportions. Sometimes there will be as
many as fifty of these little balls of smoke in one group when the guns put up a barrage.
The Germans were here for a very short stay in 1914. Now, don’t be
disappointed, for I have no atrocity stories; they were too busy for much devilment while
in this vicinity. The old Frenchman in whose barn we are billeted says that they
confiscated his entire supply of wet goods.
Sixty men tried to drink three hundred bottles of wine and fifty bottles of booze.
As a consequence they got ingloriously drunk, and being unable to drink all the spirits,
they poured what was left out into buckets, set the buckets on fire and had a regular war
dance around the blazing alcohol in the courtyard of the farm. He says they were drunk
for three days, and it made me wonder if it is not true that the well-stocked wine cellars
of France did more to save Paris in ’14 than any other factor. I must close now with
much love to all, especially yourself and Father.