Author: Elmer Holmes Van Schoick
Date: April 13, 1918

I wrote you only last night, but today the long-expected mail arrived and I
received your letters #2, #3, and #4 together with nine others from friends in Ottawa, so
will answer yours tonight. It was 11 a.m. when the sergeant got the mail to our billet, and
he had a stack of letters about 12 inches high. We started calling them off, but the pile
was getting pretty low and my hopes likewise, before he called my name. The letters
were not arranged alphabetically, but all of mine were almost on the bottom, and the
ending of the call saw me the proud possessor of twelve letters, a postal card and a
magazine. You can get some idea of how eager we were for news from home when I tell
you that many of the boys were so interested in their letters that they were late for dinner,
which is an unheard-of-thing in the Army.
Evidently, the telegrams we had arranged for were never sent, but the card arrived
very promptly and must have been sent out as soon as we arrived in the French port. I
was glad you received the last letter I wrote at port of embarkation, as I feared it would
be held and sent with the card.
You speak of the importance of ships, and their importance cannot be emphasized
too much. When one has traveled for days over the gray waters of the Atlantic, he begins
to feel that everything in the world that is desirable is behind him and that the only tie to
home is the shipping, and that everything possible must be done to strengthen that tie and
keep the Boche pirates from cutting through the line.
There is no censorship on the incoming mail to us, and your letters arrived
unopened, except that two of the envelopes arrived in bad condition. Please use fairly heavy envelopes as the mail is handled many times before I get it, and a weak envelope is
bound to give way.
I am so glad that your health is better, and that your eyes are also improved. It
also pleased me very much to hear that you get so much use of the Edison. Music is such
a help in times like these when everyone feels the strain of war. I hope Father’s garden
sass (sassafras?) didn’t get nipped by any untimely frosts. I do not care for a copy of the
Alumni Record (University of Illinois) this time, but will fill out the blank and return it to
U. of I., bringing it up to date.
Your letters are certainly great and have done me lots of good. I only wish I
could make mine one-half as newsy and interesting.
Emily’s finances must be improving if she was able to buy a typewriter. I think it
will prove very useful to her and wouldn’t mind if she would practice on me. Edna must
be located in B. (Bloomington, IL) by this time, and I know you are much comforted by
her comradeship there. I got her letter #1 today and took pleasure in showing some of my
friends the pictures, also H.H.’s tiny newspaper. I thought his subjects rather gruesome,
but suppose he was merely following the example set by the life-size newspapers.