Author: Elmer Holmes Van Schoick
Location: France 
Date: March 29th, 1918

This is Good Friday, and we celebrated by receiving our first mail from the States.
Most of this mail was addressed to Fort Myer and forwarded to us; although, some of the
boys got letters sent direct to A.E.F. France. I got a letter from Alida Ashley, which was
written March 5th, but unfortunately that was the extent of my mail, and I received none
from home. We should have more mail soon, however, and I hope to have better luck.
I attended a short service tonight held by our chaplain in the YMCA rooms here.
I enjoyed the service very much, as it got my thoughts away from our immediate
surroundings for a few minutes. Last Sunday evening I attended the regular battalion
service, which is an open-air meeting. At that time, we commemorated the three
members of our battalion who died en route to France. “Though they escaped casualties
from attacks, the companies were unfortunate enough to lose three men on the voyage by
death from pneumonia.” (p. 20)
I was on guard last Tuesday. Our guard went on duty at eight a.m. for twenty-
four hours, and I had the third relief from twelve to two and every four hours following
for two hours. It was a beautiful moonlight night, and in a quiet village such as ours the
guards have little to do but keep walking their posts, so I had plenty of opportunity for
cogitation and reflection. The guards were given passes Wednesday afternoon, and I
went to town. Luckily I caught a ride on an Army truck, which took me to the Q.M. store
where I bought chocolate and a ten-pound can of Karo corn syrup. At the Q.M.
(quartermasters) store, articles are sold at cost to US soldiers. Five of us chipped in on
the Karo, and we have bread and syrup every meal now.
We are naturally much interested in the tremendous struggle now going on, on the
British front, and we look forward to the arrival of the newspapers each day with a great
deal of eagerness. I am still very well indeed and hope this finds all at home well.”
The Regiment was training with the British, and under their control, “well within
the active area of the greatest battle in history. (p. 27) The portion of front over which
the platoons were extended included, roughly, the thirty-mile stretch from Ypres to Lens,
a battle-ground already historic, and on the verge of becoming even more famous. 