Author: Elmer Holmes Van Schoick
Location: France 
Date: 28th May 1918

I am billet orderly today. In each billet, a man is left on guard all day to prevent
loafing of men supposed to be at work or drill and to guard against theft and fire. Not
having much to do, I will start this letter, which will finish later. Billet orderlies are
usually chosen from the sick, lame, and lazy, and since I have been with my company, I
have been fortunate enough to keep out of the above classes until yesterday.
I was with a detail yesterday afternoon, which was sent after a load of tobacco.
We had backed into position to unload the boxes (I was standing on the high piled truck
near the back end), when the driver jerked the truck forward, contrary to orders, and I was thrown to the ground, a distance of about ten feet. I was shaken up pretty well and
got a bad bruise on the hip, but wasn’t knocked out. The lieutenant in charge sent me to
the infirmary in his side-car, where they painted me with iodine and marked me duty.
The lieutenant said that he knew I’d get home all right as no man had a right to take a fall
like that without serious injury.
Speaking of iodine reminds me of a story in last week’s “Stars and Stripes.” An
Army doctor was making a trip in a Ford when the machine went wrong and died. The
chauffeur worked with it quite a while, but was unable to start it, and the doctor became
more and more nervous. Finally the doctor asked, “What on earth can be the matter with
the ---- thing?” The driver looked up with an expression of disgust and said, “Paint it
with iodine and mark it duty.”
Some of the men went down to the canal Sunday, taking the path through the
woods. They caught a little red fox about as big as a half-grown kitten, and we are
keeping it in the billet. If a wild boar pig can be tamed, I see no reason why we shouldn’t
make a pet out of the fox. The latter underscores the reference to the following from The
First Gas Regiment:
“Compensation for continual learning, digging, and carrying came partly in the
form of increasing interest in new problems, made real by the prospect of action close
ahead, and partly in the form of many outside diversions. Some pursued the hunting of
wild boar, which always resulted in more hunting than boar; others entrapped foxes or
hedgehogs who assisted the regiment as mascots…” 
Your mention of ordering coal for next winter reminds me that, as far as I know,
the French use no coal except for industrial purposes, at least not in this part of the
country. Wood is burned instead, and they are very economical of that. I have seen a
French housewife build a little fire in a very small corner of the stove just when she was
ready to cook a meal. She had the thing down to exactly that when the dinner was done,
the fire was out, every bit of heat being utilized. They have some very handsome stoves
in some homes, being covered with glazed tile of various colors and designs. Many of
the stoves are white or light blue. When trees are cut or trimmed for fuel, every bit of the
wood is utilized, down to the smallest twig. The larger pieces are sawed and split into
lengths about the same as our cord wood, but all the fine branches are tied together into
bundles, hence, the bundles of fagots which we used to read about in fairy stories.
We live next door to the village church, which is reputed to be 900 years old. I
haven’t been inside the building, but it looks its age on the outside. Around the church is
the graveyard (a very small one) with its monuments, crucifixes and artificial flowers and
wreathes. These permanent decorations are a feature of all the French cemeteries.
It is our impression here that the papers at home were a little too pessimistic about
the results of the last drive, and about what America is doing. A little story from the
“Stars and Stripes” makes the same point. Private A., “Where you goin’ tonight, Jack?”
Private B., “Oh I guess I’ll go down to the Y and absorb some gloom from the home
papers.”

Wednesday, 29th May 1918.

Much to my surprise, we got mail again last night. Your #10, Edna’s #4, and a
letter from George Moulton were my share. George is still enjoying his bomb-proof job
at Washington, is a sergeant, has been recommended for a commission, and is thinking
“seriously of getting married.” He, like the Negro in Edna’s story, probably wonders
why they didn’t start the war long ago.
Do not worry about the Mentholatum, as I still have quite a little, and restrictions
may be lifted before winter when I will really need it.
If the letters which you have received were as good as Edna intimates they should
be world beaters by now, as I am getting so I can forget about the censor when I write.
I enjoyed reading Dr. Pettit’s letter as I was personally acquainted with him, never
favorably impressed, however.
I wish it were possible for you to get out into the country occasionally, as I think
it would do you a world of good.
Emily has my best wishes and optimistic hopes in anything she undertakes. She
is grown-up, has a bright, determined mind, and will surely find her niche in the world’s
affairs sooner or later. I would say “hands off” and let her work out her own salvation
with the “best o’ luck.” My own method is to ease into things gradually, being naturally
of a rather timid disposition, lacking greatly in self-confidence, but have usually arrived
or at least made a good start. In my own estimation, I am convinced that my acceptance
as a soldier at J.B. on December 12th last, was the greatest victory I every won. I’d be
fully content to remain a private, but my conscience is getting a little uneasy (“man of my
education, experience, etc.”, “patriotic duty, etc.”, so I suppose I’ll soon be working my
head off for a commission. Of course I can get it, if I really make up my mind to go after
it.
With one of the greatest battles ever fought going on today, I spent the day
peacefully nailing tarpaper on our new mess hall. It’s hard to feel very heroic under such
circumstances.

Thursday, 30th May 1918
Today is Memorial Day, and we were given a half-holiday. There was no special
ceremony here, but at some of the large camps, I believe the A.E.F. is celebrating the day
suitably.
I have turned over 200 francs to the YMCA today to be sent home. This amounts
to 35 dollars and eight cents and will come in the form of a draft. Dad can keep this
money for me until I decide where I want it placed. Let me know as soon as the draft
arrives.
I certainly was glad to hear that your health was so much improved. I feel sure
that you will continue to enjoy the fine weather, which you must be having by this time.
It continues dry here, but has not been so hot this week as last.
Will close this rather disconnected letter now, with much love to all.
