Author: Elmer Holmes Van Schoick
Location: France 
Date: March 19th, 1918

We are now the proud possessors of a very cozy little reading, writing and
recreation room so I will improve the opportunity by beginning another letter, which I
will mail later.
French villages are very picturesque when seen from the distance of a mile or
two, especially in a hilly country such as this, where one can look down on them from
above. Every house, and, in fact, all buildings, are constructed of white stone and roofed
with red tile. The roads and streets are all of hard, white rock, and as there are no ugly
wooden fences or sheds, the prospect is very pleasing. But on close acquaintance, much
of the charm fades. Cattle, horses, pigs, sheep and chickens are housed under the same
roofs and in adjoining rooms to those occupied by the human inhabitants. Fortunately,
we are billeted in one of the few barns in town which are independent buildings and do
not have to associate with the beasts of the field, etc.
French teams are driven tandem, never two abreast as in the States. One old man
here drives a team of two horses and a white ox; the ox being hitched between the horses.
I saw a team from the train, which consisted of three oxen led by a very diminutive
donkey and driven by a German prisoner.
In this part of France, the bread is baked in round loaves with a large hole in the
middle like a mammoth doughnut. This is convenient as the loaf can be slipped over the
arm and carried conveniently. The loaves are about the size and shape of an ordinary life
preserver.
I was on guard last night for the first time on foreign soil, but nothing occurred of
especial interest. The nights are still rather cold (cold enough to frost), but the days are
fine and the sun is very hot.
During our journey here, we passed through a very picturesque river valley where
the people live in houses built against the cliffs and have part of their homes usually in
the cliff itself, somewhat similar to the Pueblas [sic] in New Mexico. This region was
devoted to the wine industry, and all the land under cultivation was planted with vines.
Wine seems to be a staple article of food with the French, and the French soldier’s
canteen is provided with two compartments, one for wine and one for water. American soldiers are permitted to drink light wines and beer at certain hours. The penalty for
drunkenness however is very severe. Needless to say, I do not partake of either of the
above.
I bought a copy of the Paris edition of the Chicago Tribune this morning. This is
a single-sheet paper and contains about the same war news as you get at home. It costs
fifteen centimes or three cents. I am enclosing some US stamps which I had when I left
the states.
Yesterday we took a long hike over the hills, and a dull rumble many miles away
reminded us that the guns are still pounding away on a very famous battlefield. Van
writes in the margins of The Story of the First Gas Regiment, they were “marched at
attention with full packs – an inhuman procedure. “