Author: Elmer Holmes Van Schoick

Elmer was born on Flag Day, June 14th, 1889, in Bloomington, Illinois. He grew
into an imposing figure, standing at 6 foot 1 inch, with light brown hair, blue eyes and
fair complexion. He grew up in Bloomington, and in the years before he saw service he
earned his degree in ceramic engineering from the University of Illinois. He moved to
Ottawa, Illinois and took a position with the Chicago Retort & Firebrick Company,
marrying a young local girl named Marion Ashley in 1914. She died in the great flu
pandemic, which swept the world in 1917-18, and it was after her death that he enlisted.
One of nearly 200 native sons of Illinois who served with the Army’s famous
First Gas Regiment in France, Van Schoick spent nearly a year overseas in what was to
be the final year of World War I. He served with the 30th US Engineer Corps, Company
D, First Gas Regiment, Chemical Warfare Service. It was known as the “Gas and Flame”
or “Hell Fire” regiment.
He was inducted into the army at Jefferson Barracks, Missouri on December 12,
1917, trained for war at Fort Myer, Virginia and departed from Hoboken, New Jersey on
the U.S.S. Agamemnon, February 27th 1918 for the 13-day voyage to France.
His regiment saw service with ten different divisions during the war, and he was
engaged in the following battles, skirmishes, and expeditions: Fere-en-Tardenois, July
30, 1918; Vesle River, August 5 – 8, 1918; the 2nd Battle of the Marne, July 18 – August
12, 1918; St. Mihiel August 28 – Sept 9, 1918; Mouelly, September 12, 1918; Argonne-
Meuse Offensive, September 23 – November 11 (Armistice Day), 1918. During his
service, Van Schoick was promoted twice, to Corporal in June of 1918 and to Sergeant 1st
Class in February of 1919. Unlike so many other young men who served and were
wounded or died in WWI, he was never wounded in battle and returned home in good
health.
He was unique among the Illinois men who served in that terrible conflagration
during its final year because he alone penned an astounding series of letters home to his
parents, Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Holmes Van Schoick (and some to his sisters), who still
resided in Bloomington, Illinois. These numbered letters (some are missing) are replicated here. Many years later his sister, Emily Van Schoick, reproduced the letters on
her typewriter, and they came into our possession when George’s mother, Ruth
McElhiney, died in 1966. Unfortunately, the originals are lost to us, but in astonishing
and intelligent detail, he wrote his family voluminously of his experiences during the last
year of the war. These letters were published as a series in the local daily, the
Bloomington Pantagraph.
He returned from the Army in January, 1919, and a year later, in January of 1920
he set down on paper some of his experiences in action at St. Mihiel, France. Some years
later, in 1925, speaking before his Ottawa, IL. Rotary Club about his remembrances of
1920, he told the members that his experiences “were frequently on my mind”. Then
someone told me that if I wanted to think of them less, to put them on paper, which I did.
That was in 1919, and to this day, no one else has ever seen this manuscript (the Ottawa
Daily Republican Times, Saturday, July 11, 1925).” Those remarks made to the Rotary
Club are found later in this compendium as the “St Mihiel Drive” and “Halloween.”
In the following story, in addition to Van Schoick’s letters, you will also find
interspersed annotated comments he made in the margins of The Story of the First Gas
Regiment, written by James Thayer Addison, Regimental Chaplain, published by
Houghton Mifflin Company in 1919. This book was central to fleshing out the story of
the First Gas Regiment and Van Schoick’s own story. One must remember that all letters
written by the soldiers were heavily censored, and the family never knew from the letters
exactly where he was in France. Those names were hand-written by a family member on
some of the newspaper articles after publication and following the close of the war. They
have herein been included. Van Schoick was able to mention some locations toward the
end of the war when censorship was less harsh.
So again, this book was of great help in guiding me, as it fleshed out the overall
experiences of his company, offering place names where he could not. These first-hand,
pithy, insights highlighted his own experiences during training camp prior to departure
for the front, and the day-to-day life of a soldier during the phases of the war in which he
took part.
The Van Schoick family has no written information extant recounting how he
personally got into the war effort, except we know that he enlisted after his first wife’s
death. We don’t know the workings of his mind, but Addison’s book gives us a fairly
good picture as to what motivations might have been pushing him to enlist, in Chapter 1,
“Beginnings.”
“The authorization for the creation of the First Gas Regiment was General Order
108 of the War Department, dated August 15, 1917. This launched an appeal to the
public for personnel for one regiment of ‘A Gas and Flame Service.’ The order found its
way to many prominent gas, mechanical and chemical engineers, to different gas and
chemical associations, and to the large industrial plants who might have in their employ
the men…needed. (p. 3)
“Information regarding the men the Army required for this assignment went out to
all United States recruiting offices and district engineer officers, and a vigorous press
played a huge role in making certain that most Americans had an opportunity to learn
about the new Gas and Flame Regiment. ‘Most of the articles make good reading, and
they are worth quoting, even at length, for to their initial efforts we owe so large a
number of our recruits.’  The Boston Transcript, with a dateline of Washington, October 26: “Only keen,
red-blooded men who are desirous of seeing active service are wanted for this regiment”
– so announces Major E. J. Atkisson, Corp of Engineers, upon whom has been placed the
duty of organizing the ‘Hell Fire’ regiment with which to fight the Germans. Officially
the new regiment will not bear this striking title; although, it is known officially as the
‘Gas and Flame Battalion’ of the Thirtieth Engineers at Camp American University.
“Major Atkisson, who is forming this unique battalion, is an officer of the Regular
Army, a graduate of West Point and Cornell, who has specialized in electrical and
mechanical engineering…The immediate need is for volunteers…250 privates, 30
chemists, 12 interpreters who speak French, 12 electrical experts, 24 mechanical experts,
12 explosive experts, 10 gas experts, 6 blacksmiths, 10 steam engineers, 8 carpenters, 8
gas engineers, 6 plumbers, 8 pipe-fitters.”
Van Schoick writes in the margins of Addison’s book, “We were told after we got
to France that the only experts who were needed were pick and shovel artists and that it
was up to all of us to qualify as such.” (p. 5)
The hype continued in the newspaper article: “The ‘Hell Fire Battalion’ offers a
real chance for men to perform active service on the battle front. They will go to France
earlier than men in many other commands, and they will be at the head of the great
offensive which supposedly will open in the spring. They often will be the vanguard of
the attacking forces, supported by the whole power of the great military organization
behind them with its thousands of cannon and its hundreds of thousands of rifles.
“The faith expressed by Army officers of the ability of the United States to teach
the Germans the war game in the use of their own hellish weapons is based not so much
upon the possible superiority of American over German chemists as on the inventiveness
of the American mind in the designing of apparatus for the projection of gases and of
flames, and, above all, upon the inexhaustible resources of the United States which will
enable the American troops to make use of an equipment immeasurably better than the
Germans can command.
“The time has gone by for any ethical discussion as to the propriety of using gas
and flames against the enemy. The Germans started the fiendish practice and are keeping
it up. The American preference would incline toward the use of a gas that would stupefy
and not kill or poison, but the Germans have set the pace and the practical officers of the
Army realize that their fire must be fought with hotter fire.” (p. 10-11)
Van trained at Camp American University, and what follows is a highly colored
version of what transpired there, reported in the Baltimore “Evening Star”, under the
dateline, Washington, November 15.
“If his Satanic Majesty happened to drop around at the American University
training camp today, he would see the ‘Hell Fire Battalion’ at work and might blush with
envy. Throughout the Army”…the boys are known as ‘Hell Fire Boys.’ This name is
literally true. A group of red-blooded Americans, most of them youths, are daily training
in gas and flame fighting and learning how to make a literal inferno in return for German
‘frightfulness.’
“Gas and flame fighting is a new wrinkle in the American Army, but the ‘Hell
Fire Battalion’ has taken to it as the duck takes to water. It is a volunteer
organization…There is a general rush for engineers to get transfers to the battalion, for it
offers more possibilities of adventure and action than almost any other branch of the service. The…battalion is going ‘over there’ within a short time. Today they are
preparing for the trip. Full equipment has been issued, and they expect to see action as
soon as they arrive.
“They will be immediately to the front, where they will train under actual war
conditions with French and British ‘gassers.’ Thousands of dollars have been spent in
research work…They are going to Europe equipped with a gas mask that experts claim
far surpasses anything in use now. Moreover, they will take with them gas ammunition
tanks and tanks of ‘hell fire’ that are recent inventions.” To which, Van replies in the
margin, “Bunk.” (p. 10-11)
The “Evening Star” article continues, “In addition to gas work, the ‘Hell Fire
Boys’ are becoming smoke artists. They are practicing daily with smoke clouds. Over
the campus at American University they are sending out huge black volumes of smoke.
In Europe these smoke clouds are used to hide troop movements and to unnerve the
enemy. The enemy never knows what is back of a smoke cloud. It always causes
nervous excitement, for it inevitably is followed by an attack from some unexpected
point.
“There will be but one gas and flame regiment for each American army. As a
result of this policy, the gas and flame fighters get a greater variety of action than any
other unit. There is no long staying at one place. They move about quickly from one
front to another. Gas attacks always come in the heaviest battles, and the ‘Hell Fire
Boys’ expect to be among those present at every big attack made by the American
Forces.” (p. 11) Van Schoick adds, “Strange to say, this really happened.”
There follows the events leading up to Van Schoick’s departure for Europe.
Company D had trained at Camp American then moved December 5th to Fort Myer.
Recruits continued to arrive, and we don’t know exactly when Van arrived for training
during the time period, but he and his fellow recruits, “always referred to this camp as
Valley Forge,” the weather being miserably cold and snowy.
“During the week of February 17, the work of preparation was more intense and
interesting. On Monday afternoon, February 25 at 3:30, the companies assembled with
full equipment, and after roll-call marched to the Roslyn Station, near the Potomac
Bridge, where they entrained with neatness and dispatch,” To which Van Schoick
added, “Nothing is ever done in the Army with neatness and dispatch, as our chaplain so
quaintly expresses it.” (p. 9)
“After about four hours of waiting and a brief ferry trip, the battalion was
reassembled on the pier at Hoboken, and before 11:00 a.m. had embarked on the US
Transport Agamemnon, 22,000 tons, once the Kaiser Wilhelm II. On the evening of the
following day, (February 26, 1918), the Agamemnon sailed. The convoy consisted,
besides the Agamemnon, of the US Transports Mt. Vernon (the former Kronprinzessin
Cecilie) and America (the Amerika), joined on March 3 by the US Armored Cruiser
Seattle, bearing the Secretary of War.” (p. 19)
It is at this point that he begins the series of numbered letters, the first of which he
titled: