Author: Elmer Holmes Van Schoick
Location: Brest, France 
Date: March 17, 1918

When I finished my last letter, I had not yet set foot on French soil, being still on
the ship. We landed a little later and marched through the old French city to a rest camp
about five miles distant. One does not see everything to best advantage when marching
at attention with full equipment, but I did the best I could and will jot down some of the
things, which I noted.
The day was warm and fine, and although the trees were not leaved out, the grass
was very green and some early flowers were in bloom. We attracted considerable
attention, and the people appeared to be glad we were here.
Most of the women were mourning, and the absence of young men of military age
was noticeable. Most of the workmen we saw were either young boys or old men. The
streetcars had women conductors, and all the stores seemed to be tended by women.
We saw many French soldiers in their uniforms of horizon blue, some wounded,
and some evidently home on leave. I wondered what they thought of us and whether they
thought we would do as well as they have.
The city itself is delightfully foreign looking. The main street itself is fairly
straight, but the side streets are very narrow and crooked and shoot off at the most
unexpected angles. The houses and buildings were entirely of stone construction.
The rest camp consisted of a number of huge stone barracks, built by the great
Napoleon for his troops, but now used exclusively by the A.E.F. (Allied Expeditionary
Forces). The barracks are unheated, but with our blankets and shelter halves, we sleep
comfortably on wooden pallets. White bread, beans, bacon, beef, prunes and coffee make
up our mess.
We saw no autos except American Army trucks and the ever present Ford, the
latter usually disguised as an ambulance. A movie show in town featured Charlie
Chaplin.
We have had the Paris edition of the New York Herald on several occasions, and
a newspaper sure looks good. It is from two to four pages in size and contains mostly
war news. We learned from this paper that Secretary of War Baker is in France.
After two days at the rest camp, we entrained for a long railroad trip, which took
us to our present location. We traveled in third class compartments, which I shall not
attempt to describe, as they were typical European coaches. Each compartment is separate and holds eight men. Doors open on the sides, and one can walk along the
outside of the train from end to end, but not on the inside. We carried our rations of
canned corned beef, tomatoes, pork and beans, and hard bread with us. We stopped
several times each day for an hour and eked out our rations with war bread (which I like
fine), jelly, eggs, etc. Prices are very high. I paid six cents for a boiled egg one day and
nine cents for an egg the next day. Chocolate bars like we buy in the States for five cents
cost one franc or eighteen cents.
France is a very beautiful country, and I enjoyed the trip immensely. We saw
some German and Austrian prisoners working in the field with no guards in sight. We
arrived here yesterday afternoon and are billeted in the houses and barns of this very
small village. I am living in a large barn, and it is dry and clean so we have no
complaint. In later letters I will try to tell you more of the people, the country and our
life here, but will close now.