Author: Elmer Holmes Van Schoick
Date: 6th April 1918

This is Saturday night and another week of Army life is behind us. It was been an
interesting and profitable week to me, as we have had some very good training. I am
writing this in the battalion writing room, and the Victrola, which we brought from the
States with us is playing “Larboard Watch Ahoy.” I remember when you and Dad used
to sing it years ago, and it brought home very close to me.
Last Monday it rained all day and we did little work but drew our pay for March.
I received 156 francs at the rate of 5 and seven-tenth francs per dollar. Tuesday we had a
mail call and I got five letters, among which were yours of February 25th, which was
forwarded from Fort Myer. I also received Alice’s letter written about the same time. I
can’t realize that she is in the eighth grade “already yet.” You will know how much I
appreciated your letter. Our mail delivery is somewhat erratic, but I guess it will all get
there sooner or later. All that does come is read and re-read. I certainly hope that Papa’s
cold did not amount to much and that your cough is entirely gone by this time.
Later in the week I received a copy of the Literary Digest from Brown and today
some Washington papers from George M.
I was on guard detail from one p.m. Wednesday until one p.m. Thursday.
Nothing of special interest occurred during that time.
Yesterday p.m. I got a pass and went to town. I made a few small purchases, had
a good meal and returned early. I failed to get a bath, which was the principle thing I
went after, so will bathe in the little river tomorrow. In town I got a Saturday Evening
Post of March 9th, also a copy of the “Stars and Stripes,” a paper published “by and for
the men of the A.E.F.
I noticed an item in today’s Tribune stating that 34 out of 50 townships in Illinois
had gone dry. I wondered about Bloomington.
Probably it would interest you to know that our time here is seven hours faster
than Central (USA) time. The French railroads use a 24-hour clock, and trains are
scheduled at such hours as 15 minutes past 17, for example, or as we would say, 5:15
p.m. Three o’clock would be 11 p.m., etc.
We have had considerable rain lately, and as the weather is warmer, spring is
almost here. The trees are not yet leaved out but will be in a few days more. The season
is about the same as, I imagine, it is at home at this time. We have had some rather cold
weather since we have been in France, but I don’t believe that I have been in a heated
room more than two hours altogether. These folks over here are certainly the original
fuel-savers, but it’s all in getting used to it, and we don’t miss the fire now nearly as
much as we did at first.
A wedding in our village the past week was the principle event. A French officer
married one of the village girls, and the attendant ceremonies occupied several days.
There was much parading by the bridal party, and much staring by the American boys
billeted here. The ladies in their best frocks, the men in top hats and full dress, with the
officer in his showy full dress uniform presented quite a contrast to the rather filthy
streets through which they strolled. I wish Emily were here to do justice to such scenes
with her facile pen.
Figs and dates are very plentiful here, and lately we have had stewed figs at mess
on several occasions. Boiled rice and figs, a cup of coffee and bread, make a most
satisfying meal. We get lots of bacon, good bacon, too, but I do not care so much for
meat since the weather is warmer. But we still have a good deal of beef (fresh), bully
beef, and bacon (all from Chicago, USA). There are two things that I never want to eat
after I get home; one is liver (which we consumed in large quantities while on the boat),
and the other is canned beef (bully beef) or canned willie, which is used as one of the
main standbys for emergency rations.
The longer I am over here (it’s almost a month now), the better satisfied I am to
be here. I am just beginning to realize how absolutely necessary it is for us to win this
war, and that the only way to win is by completely crushing the brutal Boche.
Much love to yourself and Dad and the rest of the folks at home.