Author: Elmer Holmes Van Schoick
Location: France
Date: Sunday Eve, March 14, 1918
Letter #8
I hope that my letters to you are having better luck than yours to me are having, as
we have received no mail again this week. It rained all day last Sunday, but I went to
town in the afternoon, as my wristwatch had stopped in the morning and refused to start.
When I got in the jewelry store and took it out of my pocket, where I was carrying it on
account of a broken strap, it was running okay. I bought a new strap for two francs, and
the watch has been keeping perfect time all week.
It rained Monday, but we had a good day’s work in spite of the weather. It also
rained Tuesday, Wednesday, Saturday, and this morning.
Thursday I was on KP duty, the first time since I left Ft. Myer. I put in a long day
carrying wood, water, and peeling spuds. The whole company was on fatigue duty
cleaning up the village, which was getting into a very filthy condition on account of the
continued rain and the mud, which was a result of so much wet weather. Friday was the
warmest day we have had so far, and we had formation without blouses in the afternoon
for the first time.
We now have a bathhouse here, which was a much needed institution. The house
itself is a shed about eight by eighteen feet. We put in a concrete floor sloped so as to
drain out to the creek. Two large galvanized cans similar to those used for garbage at
home are placed outside, and the water is heated in them. One takes a pail full of hot
water inside and scrubs himself good first, then you get another pail of hot water if you
have a friend there to go out and get it for you, pour it into a can and pull this can
overhead by means of a rope. A number of holes in the bottom of the can permit the
water to shower down, and the result is a perfectly good shower bath at minimum cost.
The whole company bathed Thursday afternoon, but I didn’t get through in the mess hall
until seven p.m., so had my bath by candlelight.
Owing to the weather we had no inspection yesterday. I took a walk in the
evening for several miles along the canal. The canal is bordered by tall poplars, which
are such a conspicuous feature of all the French landscapes I have seen. The banks and
the towpath are as neat and well kept as a city park. This is also typical of France. The
locks are of steel and stone construction, and the lock-keepers’ houses (all the lock tenders seem to be women) are neat stone buildings with the ever present red tile roofs.
So much different from the old Illinois and Michigan [canal], but it made me long for a
sight of that obsolete “tadpole ditch.”
I weighed myself at the railroad station here last night. I weighed 83 and ½ kilos
without my slicker or blouse. By a simple mental calculation, which Emily can do while
she reads this, I deduced that my weight was 183 and 7/10 pounds. I weighed 185 with
my mackinaw on in Washington last winter, so you will see that I am not being starved,
by any means.
I went to town this morning, but came back early this p.m. I got some ink for my
fountain pen, which was all I bought. The shops and stores in that city are open as usual
on Sundays. They are all making a strong bid for the trade of the prodigal American
soldier, and almost all the clerks can speak enough English to get by. One wonders what
they sold and to whom before the A.E.F. got here in force.
I wrote Edna (Van Schoick’s sister) a short letter last week, also one to George
Moulton, but have not written much lately, as we have been expecting mail any time
now, and I felt that I could write better if I had a little inspiration in the way of a letter or
two to answer. Still I feel that it is more important that the folks at home hear from us
than that we hear regularly from them. We can guess pretty well what they are doing, but
while our letters home furnish them with little real news of our work, etc., they can at
least have the satisfaction of knowing that we are well and being satisfactorily cared for.
I know this will find you well and Father also in good health.