Author: Elmer Holmes Van Schoick
Location: At Sea, 
Date: March 9th, 1918

As we are nearing the end of our voyage, I will start a letter, which I will try to
finish and mail when we reach our destination. I will number these letters from overseas
as I expect the delivery will be irregular at times. The formal heading is also a precaution
against non-delivery. I wrote you a short letter before we left the USA, which I hope you
received.
The censorship is going to be rigid so what I write must be almost entirely
personal, and the really interesting things must wait until after “It’s over, over here.”
I haven’t been seasick or any other kind of sick so far, and I am sure not many on
this ship can say the same, as we had a couple of days of rough weather, when the mess
line was very short indeed.
Our company was on guard duty when we left port, and as I had a station inside
the ship and was kept rather busy, I didn’t have time for any sentimental farewell
glimpses, etc.
We, that is, the guard, slept on deck that night, and with one blanket, a board
floor, and my cartridge belt for a pillow, it reminded me of J.B.
Our regular quarters are below decks where we sleep on canvas bunks, and these
with a life belt for a pillow make a very comfortable bed. The bunks are in tiers four
high, and I have a “lower.”
We have three meals a day, but as one of the boys said, we have them all together.
Breakfast about eight a.m., dinner at eleven thirty, and supper at four p.m. Our company
eats first, but that is immaterial as there is always plenty for everyone. The food has been
good as a rule, plenty of fresh meat and butter, which latter was a scarce article at Fort
Myer. The bread is unusually good, being baked daily aboard ship.
Last Sunday was a particularly fine, warm day. Our routine was the same as
weekdays, which means that most of us loafed all day long.
We had stewed chicken and veal for dinner last Sunday, which was delicious.
My first experience in trying to wash and shave in cold, salt water was disastrous
to my face and temper, both. But I obtained a cake of special saltwater soap and have
been more successful since then. Ordinary soap absolutely will not lather any more than
a block of wood in seawater.
Did you know that sea gulls can always be seen even in mid-ocean? I don’t know
whether they are the same ones or not, but there have always been some about this ship.
We eat our meals in a large mess hall, get the food in our mess kits and carry the
kits to tables at which we stand while we eat. To accomplish this in rough weather, when
you have a cup of coffee in one hand, and the rest of your breakfast in your meat-can and
cover in the other hand is no easy feat. On our roughest day, many of the men were upset
entirely both before and after eating. Once the boat rolled so that men, mess kits, tables
and food were piled upon one side of the room indiscriminately, and one doughboy
landed in the big slop can where we dump the coffee we don’t drink.
By the way, this whole trip has been one of the best jokes every pulled off on
Kaiser Bill. Our company was on guard duty again yesterday, and from my post I was
able to see the only bit of excitement we have had so far. I can’t say more than that the result was entirely satisfactory to us and to our cause, and that it was all over in a very
short time.
(France – several days later)
We are now safe in port and I, for one, am thankful that our voyage is completed.
The sight of land acted as a tonic to the few men who were still sick, and a happier crowd
you never saw.
We have had to set our watches ahead about five hours since we left USA, and
today they changed to “summer time: in France, so we set them ahead another hour. My
watch is now seven hours ahead of the time back home (in Illinois.)
Will not attempt to write more now, but will close with much love to all at home,
especially yourself and father. 