Author: Guy Arnold
Date: 5 February 1916
Location: Tel - El - Kibir
Regiment: 2nd Battalion 1st Infantry Brigade
Nationality: Australian

Text:


 5 February 1916  Stationed at Tel - El - Kibir.     My dear Father,  I have not heard from   you, for quite a long time; I had a  letter from Aunty the other day saying  you had the offer of a post, as bailiff under  Sir Francis Burdett, but she did not say  whether you had accepted it or not.  We had a photograph of the whole batallion  taken the other day; if they turn out alright  will send you one on.  We are not having a bad time of it here  now, they have knocked off the afternoon drill,  we go out from eight o'clock to about half  past twelve, & then we have finished for  they day.  I told you in my last letter that  Jim Watts was in our Batallion, he joined  us with the 9th reinforcements; I have not  yet heard what batallion Rupert has
joined up with.  We had some very heavy rain here last  night, they say it never rains in Egypt,  but we have had a fair amount of it  since we have been here this last time.  We had hard work to keep our tents  up, after the ground got a bit wet, the  sand won't hold the pegs, when it is wet.  I wonder when this attack on the Canal  is coming off; I think they mean to have  a pretty determined go for it very soon  now; I don't think they will leave it  much later, if they can help it, because it  gets so terribly hot here, & water will be  their greatest drawback. Personally I don't think  they hold a ghost of a chance of ever breaking  our lines; they have taken on too big a  contract of getting too many heavy guns across  such a space of country; I think one heavy  battle will just about settle the Canal business;  & then I suppose we will have to give a  hand at Salonika, perhaps.  Did Ralph ^brother get his Commission? 
With love  Your affectionate son. Guy Arnold.


For God, For King & For Country  Y. M. C. A  With The  Mediterranean Expeditionary Force     Patron  Y. M. C. A.  National Council  H. M. The King 

Patron  Military Camp Dep't  H. R. H.  Duke of Connaught 

Committee  For Egypt  and  The Near East.     Chairman  H. E. Sir Henry  McMahon 

Reply to No. 1311. B Coy. 2nd Bat. 1st Infty Brig 