Author: Guy Arnold
Date: 5 February 1915
Regiment: 2nd Battalion 1st Infantry Brigade
Nationality: Australian

Text:
  
5 February 1915.     My dear Father,  I was glad to receive  your letter the other day; I am afraid  it would not be much of a holiday  for you in the hospital, with a poisoned   leg; I hope it will soon be better, it  seems a terrible climate for ones' blood.  Have you seen Tom Burton yet? I saw  him down Sydney about a week ago,  with a fellow that was working at  Mac Bride's; I was surprised to see them,  they told me all the news. Tom promised  to call in & see you when he got back.  We had our final leave about a week  ago, I spent most of my time in Sydney;  we had a very good time, I should have  liked to have got up & seen you before  leaving, but it was a little too far.  I don't know for certain when we sail  yet, but I don't think it will be  longer than two or three days, we have  the greater part of our equipment now
we have our top coats to get yet, & a few  little odds & ends.  All our reinforcements marched through  the streets of Sydney yesterday, the crowd  gave us a very good cheering, I did not  expect to see half such a big crowd.  Have you heard Kenneth has joined again;  they kept him messing about so before he  could get in the Navy, & I think the  money ran short; so he went into the  hospital for his opperation, & joined here about  a week ago. I have just been getting  him transfered into the same company  as myself, I think he will be fixed up  for certain to-morrow; you see he has  had a couple of years in the O. T. C. in  the Old Country so he knows his drill; Quite  a lot of the fellows out of our Coy have been  discharged & put back into different Coys  just lately for getting drunk & over stepping  their leave, so that there are plenty of  vacancies for us to get our friends & relations  in the same Coy.  I had a letter from Mr Lennard, brother  to Mrs. Swann, asking me to go & see them  but I never got the letter until after
I got back from my holidays so I   think it doubtful if I shall be able to  see them. I wrote to Mr. Lennard &  Uncle Swann yesterday.  I don't know whether you received that  money I sent you some time back  I  sent up three pounds, I would have  sent you some more this last pay, only  I could not do it as I spent it all  during my final leave & also I let   Kenneth have a pound as he was short.  I am leaving you three fifths of my   wage inc three shillings a day, it will  start from the day we leave Australia;  I hope you will accept it as nearly all  the fellows our leaving about the same  to their parents. I case you don't receive  the money regularly you must write down  to the military authorities, I don't suppose  you will receive the first payment  till nearly a month after we sail, so  I should not worry them unles they run  too long after that, we get payed paid fortnightly  so I suppose you will receive the money  fortnightly.
I am sorry to hear about Grannie's  death, it must be a great blow to you,  being away from your Mother at the end.  I hope you will have good luck in selling  the place, if you are still determined in  selling; I hope Rupert will stop with you;  I don't like the idea of going away & leaving  you alone. I suppose when Kenneth fills in  his form, he will leave three fifths of his  wage to you. I don't want you to worry  about that seventy pounds, I would rather you  kept it, as I am more capable of earning it, than  you, at your age.  I am glad the cane is looking well, I was  surprised to hear about Wilson wanting  to sell out.  I think you better address my next letter to  Egypt. I was talking to an old man in Sydney, he  told me he had four sons at the in Egypt & one at home  & his Mother had just written to tell him (son) it was his duty to join.   Pretty patriotic   wasn't he.  With best love                                                          Your affectionate son, Guy Arnold.


I have put   on one stonend& a half  since I have been in camp am  13 stone 7lbs now, so this  life suits me doesn't it.     2nd Reinforcements  2 Battalion  1st Infantry Brigade.  