Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury

Location: Carpi Camp Mudros Lemnos
Date: 2 December 1915
Nationality: Australian


Text:

Dear Father & Mother,-
Fine mail received yesterday - letters. October. 10 and 17, also from Wumps and Uncle Will, Doc. Schulz, Mrs.Will Kimber - the Boltons - & also parcels from most. this was the most welcome mail we have had for months as we've lost some & only got part of others.

I think something else might have been tried - a landing near Bulair - so as to get with Turkey before the Bulgarians did, but we were treacherously sold by the Greeks I only wish we would declare war on the Greeks for the world wants to be rid of such mongrels. If Homer only lived now he would weep & I guarantee old Lysander would desert to the Persians rather than associate with the present-day Greek. We are quite isolated here - no news at all from Anzac - or from any of the fronts except what we get from the English papers - nothing about Suvla - or other operations. A better type of "Pommy" is coming out now - but they're not the real Tommy yet. Our reinfs. are coming in, & all our Senior officers except Colonet & Hurcombe have returned - so that my  promotion is blocked. This seems hard as I was recommended for captaincy a little while before I handed over A. Comp when Beevor came back. Seniority still counts a lot - & a lot of fellows are even more unfortunate than I am 11. Anyhow I have stuck it - there were at least 3 occasions when I could have got a trip to England - but we came here to fight, - and if I get back to Australia my yarns will be Anzacian - not about Morton Halls - or how much money I spent on a certain night in Mudchester. Most of us have some British sand left in us - but unfortunately there are two or three in this battn who are as depicted above. I am quite an ancient in the 10th now - and far from a 6/- a day tourist as someone dubbed the Aussies in Egypt. My platoon is nearly full now, and I am giving them plenty of work. Some of the new hands may think me hard when I toss some hot language at them, but I impressed on them that we had to keep up our name. Some are rather careless with the safety catches on their rifles - & these found I can talk hard & pretty hot too. However as they get into the collar they find it easier - and my vocab. has not been strained or much perverted.
No S.E. have come among the new ones - but a few old chums - Charlie [[?]] - Long-un Price - & Leach - whilst six chaps from my year at S.M. & I. are here (- Loutet, Smith, Morley, Garden, Thiele, & myself) Christophers have arrived here & so has Hibby in Thurro's battn. At present our camp is isolated - (diph & mumps). It is over a year since I put on khaki, & I feel fit for two more years but hope we won't need that. I am in tip top condition, hope you are the same. Love to all & a very happy New Year
Your loving son Rollo
