

Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Date: 31 December 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:


Dear Father & Mother
My second lmeas away from house, sunder what different
circumstances. Fortinalely we are out of the Trences sunder Canvas.
but I sincerely hope the next lmas will be under the parental oo
This letter may be very much out as regards compesition- bue
kindly excuse - as we are by circumstances toosed from pullar tipos
The received orders yesterday that we were to embark todry but
at the last moment they were sensible tiled not spend
tman on the move. All the same with most o our gear
packed up we are stending lmas under extmaordinary conditions
We have had no mail seemingly for months smonths smonths
and we are not likely to get any unless our maits fed bagk
to Egypt, five succeed in getting there too.
We recd our Imas billies - Have them out last night.
She meen were like a lot of kiddies - diring noto the billies
th fish out their prizes. Thost contained a pleane purdding or
tumed cake pipes stobacco, chocolati, hankies, socks cardy
ssome were freaks. One contained paper whictles thats, such
gnant
as would be in a childs to stocking - others contained retters
My dear soldier hero! & Trumor has it that one mone
reed a letter from a lady who wroted to actopt the reght
as her son when the war is over. Most of the brilies
came from N.S.M &V & I expect tons of cansoring on
the replies. As far as dinner was conceened- we did not
lay ourselves out to any great extent. movements uncertain However the neen had good old roast beef vegetables
followed by plen pudding (many sent from Australia) then
cake tc followed by as many deliracies they had managed
to get. I gave my boys a case of preserved frunts - so they were
O.K live all did pretty well allround
In the morning there was Brgade Church ravade agrand
turn out too. After this we marcked past the Brigadier
and thene disnuesed Just before denner we got a sudden
muster call - felt in - twere addressed by Gen. Chauvel
then marched last again. You don't know what a
"March Part is, until you are with a platoon that hus
done solid service- and your massed Brigade band
is playing our Regt. March – one literally treads
on air then. Well we reed. instructions to be ready
to leave early tomorrow morning - so I will stop now
as Reveille is at 4 a.m. Tthere is much to do.
I will write again on board ship- so will end
now hoping youre had a very very jolly dneas
wishing you all a most happy, prorperous, successful,
speaceful new Year - with much love from
Your loving son
Rollo


