

Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury

Date: 18 January 1916

Nationality: Australian


Text:

Just had a nest from Ded Muttner & Juck Skephend L15B0
who are in canp about 2 nules from our lines. Both looked
wellespecially Shepherd. Carthew is in Efts. for their
battery - so with also be along soon.
Auge numbers of troops are here - can't give figures.
but we are all Aussies- and a hifty lot too. Ih He
are having monolorious parade ground work – just enough
to keep us fit- and many gf us are getting special
bombing instruction, for it looks as though we will be
placed directly against the Hans before long
Somehow I seem to feel that we the Aussies- are
going to push the buitton that is going to drop the
curtain on this war - I don't know why - but I have
hopes still that we are going ant Germany- and
then Wilhelm won't hesitale to say nuff.
We were reviewed the other day by Gen. Sir Airch Kinoray
who has relieved Marwell as C.O.C. in Egypt. By
gove it was stirring - the march part - well I was so
intolicated with pride in the fact that I was British
an Anstralian, in the Dth, wwith C. Company and
Capt. Shaw- that I trod on air - as the bared
suring us past to the time of King Colonre
our Regimental March June.
The man who says Aussies are only good
soldiers as far as fighting is concerned is a liar for we would salute any troops that could do a
review as well as we did that day. He were reviewed
on the actual battlefield of Tel.el. Rebir – we marched
past paraltel with Arabis trenches
It was a minque review. I hage number of trogs,
no spectators only a handful of Staff Efficers there to
watch us - yet I could almost swear that when my
platoon did Eyes Right in passing the Cold Jack - the
click of their necks frightened Nuway's Koose
The meny that stands up against our Arnny Cops
will have to be a marvellous one, & have to be in an
impregnable position. If we get broken - well the
ones who break us will be invincibles. If ontes
Wellington was here to lead us we would bring about
peace to this earth in six weeks! If Wolseley could
have seen uo marching over his old battlefeld he
would have turned an Australian too
no one knows when our next got is on or where
but my new man are all frightfully keen and anxious
to get into a scrap, II will admit that many of ne
old hands are beginning to hanker after powder again
This life seems woo stor. I form fours to seems keoy
damned silly monotonous as very boys say.
To break down the monitory & put my cot. as cricket
this afternoon– but as the ritch was extremely sandy
it was a real bowlers wicket New runs were made,

