Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury

Location: Sirfu Camp Mudros West
Date: 12 December 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:


Dear F. & M., -
It's about time our next mail came in - but I haven't answered most of my last correspondents - it's so hard trying to write letters when we've no news - and on a/c of our diph. isolation we cannot travel about - or get any news. I will tell you about this island now. By the map you will notice its irregular shape, & a fair-sized map will show you the harbor of Mudros. This harbor is full of shipping - I'm not allowed to say anything of either the quantity or quality. Hill come undulating right down to the water's edge, barren windswept hills too with a very few exceptions. At a few places there are 'undulating flats' our camp is on one - but its outer edge runs up the side of a hill. Imbros was a much more fertile island - although Lemnos has about 23 villages - a population of about 20,000 - most of them refugees from Turkey. All native industries have ceased since Lemnos was made a 'base' - the inhabitants are all fruit or chocolate sellers - while the children go in for collective 'baksheesh'. There are about six villages near us - all the same - rough flagged streets which ramble along any old way, while most of the houses have had their fronts knocked out to turn into shops. Those not used as shops keep their ground floor as cow yard or poultry roosts - and dwell in the upper portion.
The Greeks are a bit cleaner than the Egyptians, but all 15 I would rather live in a  'dug out' than in an ordinary Grecian village house. Each village has its church - full of incense & women. The service is after the Romish style - Altars & pictures of Christ, Mary, & various saints - The parson is "all black" including a unique hat [small drawing] - & allwear beards All the churches burn candles and special lamps - which shining on the many glass ornaments send forth rather a "spectrumnal" effect. The seats are very uncomfortable - & the parson speaks from about six different places - his sermon is delivered from a box near the ceiling - which he reaches by a spiral staircase. he seems to have all the "say" & "sing" too Several Greek bibles were in the seats. At one part of the service everyone lit tapers from a certain lamp carried by the priest. The service was very interesting but as Iknew no Greek I could not make out the why or the wherefore of various processes. Near by is a Monastery - a huge rambling building - enclosed by a wall. Charlie Hooper went with me on an exploration - & we found the greater portion of the building was used as cattle & sheepyard sheds. Full of kids & fowls, the monks evidently have a big grip of the pastoral industry in Mudros West. Each village has a school - but I've not had a chance to visit one yet - but as soon as we're out of quarantine Inspector Armitage will get busy. Two places that I must visit on this island are Castro & Therma - There are hot springs at Therma 17 and the Turks have turned these into luxurious baths - one
built of marble. Therma is about 8 miles away - still I am hopeful of getting over the hilly country to it some day. Castro is about 5 miles further on & is the capital of Lemnos. Only officers are allowed to visit this place - one of the 'lions' of which is a shop where Roman relics (made in England & possibly Germany) can be bought. Lemnos is not half so interesting as Imbros - but I hope the 'cordon' will be removed soon, & then we will be able to ramble about.
Sometimes we can get leave to visit the boats. I had one such trip - & indulged in the luxury of a hair-cut in a modern ship's hair-dressing saloon. Then I tipped the steward - & got the entree' into the bath-room where i had a good decent
'hot' bath. I could not get back to camp quick enough to
pull off my lousy clobber & burn them - & now I can boast
that I am clean & well rid of vermin. At Anzac we were
vermin experts - & one of the best ways to kill the pests was
to turn the pants & shirts inside out. Sometimes we were successful
in our objective - we walked the beasts to death. I can
tell you that it was a "strange feeling" clean body, clean clothes, & no
vermin, the first night, the absence of my constant companions
kept me from sleeping. However I feel more of my old
self now. Our brigade is here now - and as a Brigade
we are rapidly getting our punch back - & the battalion
is some 'tuss' now I can assure you. we already own
a bugle [[band?]], and have pinched a big drum & side 19
drums from where I don't know - but when one hears the
10th bugle march played when in columns of route - swinging
along with the 3d Bg, one's blood makes to his head and he
feels like fight. I only wish we had our old original Brigadier
here now - & Col. S.P.N. with us - & we would be quite O.K.
Battn antics are such that on one or two occasions I have
had charge of the company in field work & one begins to feel
some tuss - when given the Co for such work - even if
given for a short hour or so.
Anyhow if Bean has forgotten us Hd.Qrs. hasn't, &
there is a job for us & our fellow Anzacs near by - & by
God - if it is what I hope it is - we'll make our names
stand out in Hunnish blood then. Jack has given most
of us an appetite - and if only we get put against the God
damned Huns - well things will move.
Sorry to hear of Arthur [[?]] bad luck. Perhaps
Millbrook knocked him out. - along with the drought. Hope
he soon picks up again Several of Afie's old scholars are
here - (Loutit - Gordon - Smith & Co) - and we are all doing
our darnedest to wipe out the score for him, Gordon & Co.
It's hard work letter writing now - this has taken me
about 3 hours - but there's really no news to send.
I'll close with love & wishes for good luck this
new Year - & may we soon win peace. Very much love from
Your Loving Son
Rollo
 



