
Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury

Date: 15 March 1916

Location: TELE-KEBIR.

Nationality: Australian.


Text: 


In case its only a runor of mails being held yr.
am going to write as usual - but especially so today, as
this afternoon your letter Pet 6th came to hand, I was
exceedingly surprised to hear you'd had nothing from me
since Dec 23- it was very disappointing to hear that for
I had sent a letter & parcel from Cairo on Jantor - brstheday
present for mum - & about a week later another parael bende
the regular letter & lmas wishes. If notcome mind
Stelegraph at once to me– & Ill stir things up.
Wumps also wrote - practically an ultimation becouse
I had not written to her - well with shofting about
training - lecturing, working all day long, t one does
not feel up to writing. Iit has been an effort to even
write to you - for really were no news to send
Uncle Will also wrote mentioning that he expected
should be a capt. now the army has been increased.
but we have already seen cold footed seniors father
the pluns- because we were foolish enough to put in
49
six months at Anzac- You have done good work
but not had enough experience has been said to
three or four of us – men who have been fighting
since July - men who have been doing captains and
maors work Tyet with Anna and the Remforcemin
Hades behind we are told
too prnior. not enough experience.

Majors H. & I. are excellent men they are batting
hard for us - & I told me I was recommended
so dve not put my tail between my legs yet.
My word, Dad- the words sick & convalesient
cover a lot in the casualty liste in some cases
sick simply means fund - convalisient often
lagmess - nolidaying, &c and as Benia remarks a
number of ifit looking men are getting back to
Anstratea. Its a durned shame that such musteryevers
should make a blot on the name of Anzac
Fancy Ireland having to be recalled - surely dity
was sufficient. I hope he doesnt come in same But
as myself - itd be rot if he were my senior
The 10 has meir back again- Show as If in couant
Reslburg is Major. B. his gone to some other Batn in
our Brigade. Thank God we did not get him.
Don't know where 1th is just now spiebatly we wont aee
them for many weeks if runnors are correct.
Well I'll cease five for the time being. he news


TELEIKEOR
16.3 16
Your birthday started today Dad & you should
have read a letter with blotholon peetings. My
men were ioculated again yesterday - Have all yt
duty this afternoon bat arms Ivery sick over o
so Sreckon the M.O. overdosed them.

I went out this afternoon to make a thorough reconmaning
of Arabis trenches. I can't quite follow the idea of them
but I have made up one or two schemes for attack
& defense by my company. C has been split up a bit
we have had to supply details for newly formed
Artillery, Engineers, & A.S.C, sit is a bit riting to
have to empty out ones company, after training them
up to a certain point - then to have raw hands
passed on to us. Yout be surprised to see how
ignorant some & the 2t are even of ordinary
regimental dunes. But anyhow I must say all
the new men are keen Iit is a pleasure to handle
them. Ken Wewin is ie Batt Crderky Room
Had a long talk with Guor, just before we came tack
over the lanal - he looked very well. Mc Rail is
about somewhere. What a fity our Betts were not
formed Iamed according to the C.M.F areas from which th
came. I don't know how long will be here but before
we sheft I hope to have another toop to Caire as a ward
to see the Lov. Barrage, Muscums.
Those snaps were very food especially of George
the school. The backfround shows up well we could
do with a eight of those pines here it would do our
eyeright good after so much of this sany dicet life
Cansorship is very strict so no news to send
much lone, best manen, shopes youne as well, as
call

Enclosed supps may be handy- showing
Egghtian types of life some I mean to get entarged
native home is mud walled but royed only in port trushes
nactive bllafe makes a gova preture
The chost like lady on the truck was annoyed, when I tak
her photo the women dislike being plectoed hence my wartirng
for 2 them round a cooner not a bad enap either
The hest is the little firl water carrier – the smile nut me
2a partre (). Another letter for same marl
233. 6
Here still at F. U. K. bit protably will cras the Canal agin
fetting or fual piep for France where the 10th eas alrendy fin
One feels hust to be in what is termed an inefficiently traines
bryade or division but we will abrde by Berdwords decision
Tho knows but we may give the frnal purt so good luck to
my old platoon. Weve had a week at eleitement the ponniced
move out of Egypt has well commenced ssoon therelt be
something doing. Some promotions have come ot and dispite
my age the recommendation for my captainey has been purted
on I should be fagetted soon. Anyhow Ive had charge of C.
Co. four C.O has decided not to have his batt made a
dumpiry pound for cold fotters so this will do me.
I hope to God my training will prepase the men for the
utmost one feels responsibility when placed in charge of a
double company the told by Gen. Cox – Have them fit for
service in 6 weeks Cor has our Divrsion- he is some warror
has 3 rows of novous. Had the Enuoru Bnyudle. Iscrap
blaze


Puner o Wylis wrat
Great eent thits week Yesterday the Prince of Wates pard
this camp an informal visit & saw us at work. I was
with Birdword in fact is on Bs staff a five tribute
to the Anzaes. He is absolutely cancalused by most
photos. Altho not tall he is well-made, and is a fine
looking chap. He halted about five yards away from
me and watched me dealing out company drill to the
boys later in the day be rode down the whole of the cang
lines- (over 2 miles long) tsuch a sight I have never seen
salk about Empise seatement well it was not till then
that I realused what loyally troyalty meant. To see a
mere lad ride down belween an imprompter curte of
all types of Australians - shirtles, coatless thatles s on
with one continual over of cheers, was a wonderful sight
Cheer- never have I heard such cheering
The son of oour King saw us is attacked in the A..J.
staff- Twve can say sool save the King. Bles the Prince
of Wates Damn their and our enemies.
The Prince is krent in rank- wears a Fr. & Bel- honor.
thas plenty of go. He sets a hoose well uis a five
looking type of youngster. He must think the diggers a
weard lot the cheers were deafening tanthusiastic.
but the dress of our chaps as it was dinner time, was
typically Anstration. I got a creap of him. Cox as
waving some men back & Brosdwood is just behind.
Les. Johns Fhehman are in D.C. Ken Wt is Corp bod room
&Milwon Elanway is in my Co. &a no. of mue old 5. 40
MAI

Iim forwardling a few snaps but the joy pholagraply is
lessened when one cannot develof sprint his own films.
The develapers have rather sporled some of mine- expecially
some excellent suaps
I'm forwarding with others
1 my plation at Habeita - stopid arms a failure
2 snap of C. Co. 10th seogeants. don't lose this
3 Group of some of my brother officers t. Tawer (now 1
kient Iughs & tlark of Kens. & hore respect.
4 Cronp of officers nuclens of 50 (all from old wt)
paolicularly prize this plicte. Capt. Heobert Certreme li
is a fine officer taoon will be major. Corenze is next t him
Coon to be lient Col. of 49) I look like a buccanneer
a bookic- have not come out O.A in a suap yet
The unique one of the lot is our old 10th on way
to from yoi 50– crossing the Canal & C. Co is crasoing
some company isn't it.
Other view is interesting its our chap (10) on our
6
fouoney in the desert, on a light railway which gave
us a left of 4 miles. Our train is the right hand side
7 Other letter contains views of Cairo Egyht-tungated
side of Freah Water Canal. Group of 3 at Staberta &c.
my boys all wear helmets now twe don't leke it.
they look like Pomnines in them
Right out of news. Nothing doing– se will close
with best of love tall ford wrekes from
Holle.

