Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Location: Sarpi Camp Lemnos
Date: 19 December 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:


Dear F. & M., -
Well I suppose you have received the news by
this time, that we have evacuated Suvla & Anzac. Tonight
while I am writing the 1st & 5th brigades are leaving Anzac -
& they are either getting off with no action - or else being
practically annihilated. I can't tell you my feelings regarding
this - but I have seen at least two hardened soldiers - (Boer 
war men too) weeping over the news. We all fell extreme
disgust at the weakness of K's army, - who bungled up
the 'Sari Bahr' action, & fuddled Suvla Bay. I
wonder what has become of our wonderful diplomats -
the have certainly absolutely bungled the Balkan business
The whole problem was the inefficient, incapable,
& badly led troops sent from England to 'help' us against
Sari Bahr - & to do the Suvla Bay occupation. If they
had been shoved in right, we would have finished Jacko
by the end of August - the Bulgars, Grks, Romanians &c
would have been confident of British success, & we wd.
have gone into Germany through Austria, & by now the
war would be over. Owing to the colossal failure
Greece & Romania hang off - while Bulgaria has gone
over to what appears the winning side - so that the
Balkan question is now going to loom large in the
destiny of Egypt, India & the British Empire.
I knew so much as I do about the Salonika business - you would feel absolutely disgusted.
Due to our actions Serbia has been pushed into the mire
just as Belgium was. Like the policeman - we were
too late - and things had so developed that heavy artillery
got so near, & caused the evacuation of Anzac & Suvla.
It was futile holding on to those places then - for we were
confined by almost impregnable positions; the Huns had
effected a complete junction with Bulgaria & Turkey and
Gallipoli wasn't on the route to Egypt, and as well the
wear & tear of war, the wastage of disease & actions, a
winter campaign under conditions totally unprovided for
did not warrant holding such an unnecessary position -
so we have ben withdrawn for some other purpose.
When we calmly think over it I believe the "leaving"
was the best & proper plan - so we must put sentiment on
one side - altho' it is hard for us to leave so many of
our best & dearest who went out there, - after innumerable
fatigues, worries, many risks - & with no tangible result
as the effect of their sacrifice. We are not the only ones
who blames Ks Men; the French won't have them, hence
they are not sent to Salonika.
We are unfortunate - as it was our turn for a stunt -
but we were relieved by the 1st Bgde - hence they have the
luck to get the final scrap. if there is a 'go' - it will
be a beauty - the Turks will get hell right enough - but
very few of ours will get away. One is uncertain what
tense to use over this matter for the business is very
probably on at this very moment. Anyhow I would like to
be in that scrap- it will be a fight - not a trench affair.
On the other hand we may get off quietly fwithout any
serious casualties - I sincerely hope so - but in any case
before Jacks gets nito our position many of him will be
blown to eternity.
The Batt commanded by Brand came back today- Hardy
is with them. Alfic P. was their adjutant, & Hen. Panl
had a brother who went out with them. The Bn. looks ot
Once our Division re-organises we will be the best in the
BritishEx (this is fact not blow) mind I don't
say Dr. Aony- for that means K. Cs- who are mund.
I don't feel up to writing more tonght - so I will
hold off till tomorrow.
Decr 20
It may surprise you as it did us to a certain
extent - but they got off last night without a scrap
I had less casualties than reawr on an ordinary night.
Only 6 casualties seems umbeliionble but it is true
my word it relieved us to know Providence had been
merciful your boys got away so well. Cheer - we did
just yell - when the first of the "evacuators marched
past us, my word Dod, we are glad that Austraian
feneralship succeeded so well.- but if there had been
a scrap thered have been a much different tale to till
I dreamed & is twoce last negter- Tit was a weanty
MNH

The final party was well clear by dawre - fone or two
T.P.D. fa moniior, were all that was left of a huge fleet
About 7 a.m. this morning Jacko gave hone Pine &
silt Spur a terrible bombardment and an attack was make
in Russelk's Sop - (Walker's Ridge) in broad daylight. - but
our boys were far away. The Ravy spotted the attack
and stopped it with a few shells – but in any care, the
wonder is the easy way in which our chaps fot away
Our boys are working several atunts here peaceful
of course each platoon has a large marquee allotted, to it
&here is great rivaloy to see whose is the cleanest in the
lines. The latest crage is Art, Decoration, & Enguiality.
Every tent is surrounded by borders of stones very
neatly arranged – some have made lime for whitewask,
swhitened the stones. One artist worked in front of
his tenty the Australion coat of Arms - in rebbles, & them
whitewashed them. Another improved on this by making
the same with broken bits of colored flacs, &then the
craze spread.
Australias with plass, wattle leaves, orarge peet for
bloasoms - S.A. crow shorkes or magfres - to rave
everywhere but my boys are the most onginal.
They have mad a lnge design on a heaped syr reorned
8th by 4 representing in plass typical aceres at Bo.
Hill. It poppet head toverground works of Block
are shown, the job has been very well done.
The G.O.C. Division was exstartic over it when he saw

it, tthe B.H. boys puor over it like a mother cat over kils
The design is well shrown out by whiteward & colored glass
and I believe the beggard must have raided one of the
huge
churches to get such a variety & quantity
We still do morning parade - but Sports in afternoon
my lot got 6 goats 8 behinds against. No 10 - 28ls 8– tthe
result was much joy in Nr. 9. I played with them, and
am still very stiff as a result.
We are working up from inter-bath to company &
battn games - I have already had goes with baths from
W.A. Eushed & Las. and wor them all. I'm on the
Battn Sports Comn - Htomorrow we are having trials to pick
out best men for Brgade Sports on 27th so despite being
quarantined, we get plenty of exercise ssport, sowe quite
happy and contented
Our last mail has fone astray. It was in the Harfor
about a meek ago but the bustle of evac got it miled up
I hope it turns up O.R. Ine a pretty decent coond of Rt.
and are grafteng them well son to Mr.G. Everybody is specking
what is in his billy- Imany struts are on the tapes for tmas
Roneers of W.A. are runioved to have 2 sucking pys & a
Ensled-ness his got a sheep. Our batt is a ning one
were got nothing yet. Ine given you a lot of information
this time– but don't worry of the letters late– itll be
held up for a week or two - but I'm an oyter your
oe to yo all Your loing s
My will next mail. All ascey
now
Coll

