Author: Buta Singh
Date: 3 October 1915
Nationality: Indian


Text: 

Indians enlisted in the army for a number of reasons and not just for regular pay. Family tradition – securing ‘izzat’ or honour for their regiment, family, clan or caste – motivated some to enlist. The idea of ‘sharm’ or shame was also an incentive: soldiers felt that disloyalty was shameful when they had ‘eaten’ the ‘salt of the government’. The idea of shame was also linked to masculinity, as soldiers behaving dishonourably were held to be imperfect males.
One recruit fell over the river and injured his back and on returning it was found his rifle had been left behind. Three men - HAV LaL Singh 35th, Hav WiR Singh 35.

Lal Singh, Wir Singh, Buta Singh informed the Company Commander that they considered it a ‘Sharm Ki Bat’ that the company should lose a rifle and asked if they could go out in day light to bring it in. The three went down a ditch and approached the listening post, which was situated in dead ground. They must have been seen as they were attacked suddenly by six Germans in front with pistols and bombs and 6 behind. Buta Singh was shot through the head, but the two Havildars drove the enemy off and started to bring Buta Singh’s body in.

Finding they could not do it, ViR Singh returned for help and reported the matter to his company commander who decided not to risk further loss of life. In the meantime, LAL Singh had remained alone with Buta Singhs body several hundred yards from and out of sight of our lines close to a large body of the enemy, who owing to the dead ground could move freely about in the open.
L/n Buta Singh had been awarded the DSM for gallantly at Nemf-Chapelle October 26, 1914 and was wounded at Ypres.
During the afternoon, the regment was relieved by the suffolles and 40th PATHANS and went into 13 line as Brigade Reserve.


War diary entry – death of Buta Singh, 1 August 1914 to 31 Dec 1915.
This war diary entry, dated 3 Oct 1915,  recounts how three Indian soldiers – Havildar Lal Singh, Havildar Wir Singh and Lance Naik Buta Singh – informed their Company Commander that they considered leaving a rifle in the field of battle to be ‘Sharam Ki Baat’ (a matter of shame). Accordingly it needed to be recovered.