
Author: James Willcocks
Date: 13 January 1915
Location: Egypt
Rank: General
Regiment: Indian Army Corps
Nationality: British


Text: 


Dear Lord Kitchener,
I feel sure when you have heard this you will forgive me for writing direct to you.
I had hoped this Corps might secure a few Battalions from Egypt but I now found I cannot. I very well understand the seriousness. I will therefore do …. very heal in with those I have. I am glad to inform you that the threat of their being relieved has had a most excellent effect and the Commanding officers have assured me that they will hold themselves responsible for their men. The men too have realise that on there depends on the hours of their Regiments and I believe they mean to do their very best.

Barring one or two Battalions the Indian troops have fought and served with a espirit that deserves the highest praise. Some of these have been clean knocked out of tune, but in these days of necessity, all believe that it is their duty to serve the Sirkar to death. We all well know how difficult it is to replace Battalions but whatever our wishes or hopes it is plain none of our units can be relieved and we fully accept the position.
In continuation of my report are 3 Battalions. I have now sent in another letter which I hope Sir you will send on to India, in case my first report should have been forwarded.
The food, clothing and necessaries for my army corps have been of the very best. No army from India has ever been so generously treated and all ranks realise this fully.
The Motor and Horse transport training are now excellent; I never believed new men could proudly be trained into such good soldiers in so short a time.
We have had a much needed zeal from the trenches and the damage has done wonders for the Corps.
The loyalty and endurance of the Indian troops is in my opinion beyond all praise.
The Indian Officers send their respectful salaams.
Yours affectionately,
James Willcocks.

Recipient: Lord Kitchener

NB. We again begin to take a share in the Trenches from 15th January and

Correspondence of General Willcocks, 1914-16 
This message from General Willcocks, commander of the Indian Corps, to Lord Kitchener is dated 13 January 1915. It highlights the fighting qualities of Indian soldiers and emphasises that they see it as their duty to serve Britain with loyalty.

