Author: Sir James Willcocks
Date: 10 October 1914
Rank: Lieutenant-General
Regiment: Indian Army Corps
Nationality: British

Text:

Order of the Day, No. 1
Soldiers of the Indian Army Corps,
We have all read with pride the gracious message of His Majesty the King Emperor to his troops from India.

On the eve of going into the field to join our British comrades who have covered themselves with glory in this great war, it is our firm resolve to prove ourselves worthy of the honour which has been conferred on us as representatives of the Army of India.
In a few days we shall be fighting as has never been our good fortune to fight before against enemies who have a long history.
But is their history as long as yours? You are the descendants of men who have been mighty rulers and great warriors for many centuries. You will never forget this! You will recall the glories of your race. Hindu and Mahomedan will be fighting side by side with British soldiers and our gallant French allies.
You will be helping to make history. You will be the first Indian soldiers of the King Emperor who will have the honour of showing in Europe that the sons of India have lost none of the ancient martial instincts and are worthy of the confidence reposed in them.
In battle you will remember that your religions enjoin on you that to give your life doing your duty is your highest reward.
The eyes of your co-religionists and your fellow countrymen are on you. From the Himalayan mountains, the banks of the Ganges and Indus and the Plains of Hindustan, they are eagerly waiting for the news of how their brethren conduct themselves when they may meet the foe.
From mosques and temples their prayers are ascending to the God of all and you will answer their hopes by the proofs of your valour.
You will fight for your King Emperor and your faith so that history will record the doings of India’s sons and your children will proudly tell of the deeds of their fathers.
JAMES WILLCOCKS,
Lieut-General,
Commdg. Indian Army Corps
Camp, 10th Oct., 1914
