Author: Sir N. Conyngham Greene
Date: 28 November 1916
Location: Consulate-General Yokohama Japan
Rank: Consul General
Nationality: British


Text:


Sir,
I have the honour to forward to Your Excellency herewith copies of two despatches which I have addressed to Mr. D. Petrie relative to Indian seditionary propaganda in Japan.
I have the honour to call Your Excellency’s attention in particular to the Reports by Agent P. which confirm the opinion which I have already expressed on several occasions, that the activities of Indian seditionary agents in this country have succeeded in enlisting a very large number of adherents to their cause from amongst Japanese of widely different classes. Both Agent P. and Q. inform me that they were astounded that the welcome accorded to them on all sides on its becoming known that they were supporters of the Indian nationalist movement.
From my own knowledge of the Japanese, and from what I have learnt from other sources, I am convinced that the sympathy shown by the Japanese towards the revolutionary movement in India does not spring from any desire to assist the Indian nations to attain their legitimate aspirations or to promote moral, industrial or political progress in their country, but has for its sole aim and object the spread of Japanese Influence in India as a factor in the ambitious policy of Japanese domination throughout the East.
In this, they are encouraged by the revolutionaries themselves who, to gain their own unds, and without realizing the true motives underlying the sympathy extended to them by the Japanese, openly encourage them in the view that the whole Indian race is looking towards Japan as its liberator from the rule of the white man.
His Excellency,
To Right Honourable
Sir N. Conyngham Greene, 
G.C...G.; K.C.B. His Majesty's Ambassador,
Tokio.

At the present moment the activities of the revolutionary agents would seem to be directed principally towards flooding the country with seditious literature in the form of articles and pamphlets written by men such a Lajpat Rai, B.K. Sarkar, Bryan, Annie Besant and a host of others, or of publications emanating from Yugantar Ashram in San Francisco and other revolutionary centres. Some of these publications, such as the “Hindustan Ghadr”, are now being received by Japanese from New York published in English.
In this connection I may mention that a book entitled "The Nationalist Movement in India: Its actual condition and Origin", emanating from the pen of Mr. S. Okawa and written in Japanese, has just made its appearance and is, I understand, being distributed broadcast. The writer, Mr. Okawa, is a staunch supporter of the seditionists here and is.

Indian radical activity in Japan, 1916.
This document is particularly concerned with what the British viewed as ‘seditious’ activities by Indian radicals in Japan. This extract, written by His Majesty’s Consul General and dated November 28 1916, calls attention to the report by Secret Agent P. The extract shows methods used by radical Indians in the USA, Europe and Japan to agitate against British rule in India and to enlist others – in this case, the Japanese – to their cause.