Author: A Ahmed Quillam
Date: 29 August 1914
Location: Liverpool, England
Rank: Solicitor
Nationality: Indian


Text:

BISMILLAH ARAHMAN ARAHEEM
(In the Name of God, the Merciful and Compassionate)

We Musselmans resident in England desire to record our indignation at the German press threatening to incite the Islamic population of the British Empire to rise in revolt.
The insinuation that Musselmans are likely to prove disloyal is an impudent and dastardly libel.

Our Holy Faith enjoins upon us to be loyal to whatever country under whose protection we reside and recognizing the religious liberty, equity and justice accorded by England to the Mussulmans who dwell under the flag, we feel confident that our brethren throughout the British Empire will decline to listen to the wicked behests of Germany and refuse to be made the tools of a selfish, brutal, and unprincipled nation which disregards treaties even though signed by itself and has plunged Europe into a bloody strife.
In the past through believing in Germany's false assurances Turkey has lost Tripoli, which was filched by a power then allied to Germany, and its best European provinces two of which (Bosnia and Herzegovenia) were stolen by Austria with whom Germany is now fighting side by side. The Musselmans of the world therefore now know Germany to be like unto "Shaitan" and in the words of our Holy Al-Koran "the evil whisperer who whispereth evil suggestions into the breasts of men" and from whom we are exhorted to fly from and seek refuge in God. 
Words cannot be found to express the anger we feel at Germany daring to proclaim that British Islamic subjects would prove false to their religion and cowardly enough to attempt to take a mean and contemptible advantage of the country to whom they owe allegiance and which has accorded them civil and religious liberty and protection.
We desire to affirm the unflinching loyalty of British Musselmans to His Imperial Majesty King George the Fifth and to assure him that all his subjects of the Islamic Faith are fully prepared, and burning with a desire to shed their blood on behalf of England side by side with the sons of Islam, natives of Algeria who are already fighting for France.
We as Muslims recognise the seriousness of Germany having deliberately broken Treaties signed by her in concert with other large powers and feel that such acts on the part of Germany are a distinct challenge to the civilized nations of the World which not only justifies but impels all Muslims to offer their services to the Allies in punishing Germany for such conduct and once more re-establishing the sanctity of Treaties.
We therefore Humbly pray that His Imperial Majesty's Brittanic Government will accept us and our brother Muslims to perform active service in the British Army and thus share the sacrifices whith the British people are so hobly making in the cause of civilization generally.
We also desire that this resolution be circulated in all Muslim communities throughout the World.
By order of the resolution passed by a General Meeting of Members of the British Muslims Association.
Signed.

Letter from A A Quillam about Muslim loyalty, 1914.
This resolution, signed by A Ahmed Quillam, solicitor, resident in Liverpool, is dated 29 August 1914. It summarises the British Muslim view of German propaganda intended to shake Muslim loyalty to Britain and expresses Muslims’ confidence in British rule and their steadfast loyalty to Britain.