Author: Sir Douglas Haig
Date: 9 April 1915
Rank: Field Marshall
Nationality: British


Text: 


Friday 9th April.

All reported quiet last night. Showery morning, but gas is steadily rising.
Sir Walter Lawrence from the India Office (who is a kind of inspector of Indian arrangements, hospitals etc) came to see me. He stated that the condition of the Native troops since the Neuve Chappelle action has changed and much for the better. All are most cheery now and anxious to remain and fight until the enemy has been beaten. He was of the opinion that the whole administrative arrangements of the Indian army were out of date and must be remodelled. In my opinion the war has proved that the whole senior officers on the Indian establishment are too old for their work.

The C in C in India must keep in closer touch with the G.O.Cs of Divisions and Brigades than has been the case in recent years. Only by this manner will it be possible to ensure that the C in C is in touch with the senior Commanders and can form an opinion as to their fitness for War.
After lunch, the C.G.S, came to see me. I had written him last night urging the necessity for giving Brigadiers a certain number of light guns and trench guns for their own close support. He came to say what he had arranged with a view of helping me. An Officer had been sent to London to arrange for what I had suggested viz.

1. ﻿﻿﻿Some 13 persons with eztra shields for moving forward by hand with Infantry, provided we can get High Explosive for 13 persons if not, 18-person guns will be provided. At close range the present shield is not fully bulletproof. also
﻿﻿﻿2. Some 3 person Hotshkiss guns of which the Navy have large numbers and
3. Batteries of mortars 4 inch for choice, because they can be fired direct at a building.
4. Rockets— But range of latter is 500 yards as minimum and they are not very accurate.

Each Brigade of Infantry will have a proportion of the foregoing so will be able to deal at once with any defended locality without having to send back and wait for distant Artillery support.

diary, March 1915 to July 1916.

This extract is from Field Marshall Sir Douglas Haig’s diaries and dated 9 April. It refers to Sir Walter Lawrence, the Commissioner for the Welfare of Indian Soldiers, and his view on why the Indian Army needed to be reformed.
