Author: Arthur James Adams.
Date: 1st September 1915.
Nationality: Australian.
Sept 1st Fatigues in daytime.  little doing otherwise, very hot Sept 2nd Thurs Fatigue &  ragtime parades in day Guard at night at Zetoun. have a good ride on horses of red caps Sept 3rd Fri Leave Zetoun station at 10 am and arrive Suez at 5 pm reach camp about 6 pm. Go in Suez at night little doing. Sept 4th Sat Write several letters do odd duties in day Guard over canal crossing at night Sept 5th Sun Guard at Canal Crossing all day and nigh,  fish in canal at intervals
Sept  6th  Mon Leave for Suez during day. Go for a long walks among gardens alongside of Nile. Feed of grapes in a vineyard. Shoot a large kingfisher with a Greek's gun Have a swim in sea & spoil my watch. Stroll around Suez with a Jack from Cruiser HMS. Fox. Walk round wazza with the Police sergeant at 12 pm Sept 7th Tues Police on trains between New Camp Suez & Port Tewfik. nothing startling Smith loses P.75  from out of his tunic pocket Suspicions cannot be proved on the culprit .
Sept 8th.. Wed Guard all day and night. look round wazza in afternoon for half hour Fish during my picket at night. Sept 9th Thurs 24 hrs leave and do washing in morning quiet afternoon & arrive home early. 65 more New Zealanders arrive by 7pm train Sept 10th Fri Picket (odd man) to go on at 7pm. Walk round bay & have a dip. in afternoon. Sept 11th Sat Indian troops leaving camp. Do train police today, fishing in morning, Meet two decent New Zealanders who give me intro to English girls Home by last train. Sept 12th Sun Spell all day in camp. little doing darn socks, wash and read visa-versa with yesterday ↑ Sept 13th Mon Do first turn on guard at tent for the 24 hrs and have a fair night Surprise visit from Sgt Major. but square him off Sept 14th Tues Go fishing with all the boys in morning back at 2pm  Paid. P 97½ in afternoon & go into Suez at night Sept 15th Wed Police duty on train in day Write letters in Soldiers Home. Very Quiet Sept 16th Thurs Do guard at tent, Australian convalescent go aboard 'Shropshire', New Zealand captain issuing red cross. stuff to his men. We as usual get nothing. Hook a large fish at night. Letter from O.P.K and Bernie Harris
Sept 17th Fri Washing clothes in morning and go fishing at Tewfik in afternoon, no luck Tea in Suez & home at 10pm. Trouble over N.Z's breaking in to Jewellers shop our guard turned out Sept 18th Sat Odd man today, all leave stopped for N. Zealanders, Do an easy guard Webb very drunk & disorderly at night & is placed under arrest. Sept 19th Sun Go into Suez in morning & have suit ironed out, &  see the fresh N Z contingent at Tewfik wharf. after meeting Nan McIntosh & Lily Haynes & enjoying a quiet walk. Home late Sept 20th Mon Do guard all day & during night Make coat of arms against our picket tent. Webb from 12th Batt. dies in hospital Sept 21st Tues Our guard and six N.Z's do firing  party and bearers to Webb's funeral in the morning. Webb from 4th Batt escorted as a prisoner to Cairo, by our sergeant & two men. Meet the girls at night and walk past the Nil Bar & have a hard job to get past the Indian guard when returning Sept 22nd Wed Dwight Price & 80 other N. Zrs  go aboard Sofia & sail at night. Do guard all day  & night, & work on design again Sept 23rd Thurs Train police & Fergusson & W Peterson come in town with me in afternoon. & Bill says good bye to Nan.
Sept 24th Friday N. Zrs hanging about all day, & another crowd come on in afternoon, Guard all day, and all night do guard on the pile of fresh kits Sept 25th Sat Go down to Port Tewfik to see  W. Peterson off & walk over the 'Melechra' Six fresh guard arrive for us at night Sept 26th Sun Parade at 10am with the new hands., Scotty Murray sent to hospital Go into town at 4-30 & meet the  girls. Take a short walk & go to church & afterwards a stroll over the Nil bridge, and have a bit of fun with the Indian guard again Sept 27th Mon Pitch a larger tent and all shift our quarters into same. Go into town & write letters in afternoon. Sept 28th Tues Meet a few Australians from 'Kyarra' 3rd Reinf 25th Batt most of whom go wild and ride donkeys into hotels etc. Sept 29th Wed Build an Australian emblem in morning and go for a walk with girls at night from 4pm Sept 30th Thurs Build emblem for Queensland for benefit of Capt Hodgekinson, Get to Port Tewfik to get permission for to go aboard Venus on Sunday.
Oct 1st Friday Cleaning up round tent in day. Start town police at night Naval concert first & then trouble with some of the boys in Orient Cafe. Home at 12pm Oct 2nd Saturday Practising funeral exercises with rifle all morning and at night evening do firing party at an Australian funeral. Chat with both girls at Tatton Browns house at night Oct 3rd Sunday Go into town in morning to buy colours for tunics, See the Procession of Holy Carpet in Suez in afternoon, afterwards taking girls aboard Cruiser Venus', walk home from Port Tewfik. Oct 4th Monday Kit inspection in morning, write letters in afternoon. do guard on Wazza at night Home at 11.30. 55 more Convalescents arrive Oct 5th Tuesday Have photos taken at 7am Do police in town at night little doing Oct 6th Wednesday Go for walk with both girls from 4pm, see naval funeral & go for walk all round cemetry way. Arrest Gunner Brown for obscene language etc at night Oct 7th Thursday Receive 8 letters & a paper in morning answer some of same. Witness at trial of Gunner Brown who gets  10/-  fine write letters in Soldiers Club at night 70 more convalescents in camp.
Oct 8th Friday Bury a man from Transport Machrina  which arrived yesterday, firing party at 8 am. funeral at 11am. 2 letters one Bernie Harris  –  one mother. Guard on Wazza, good night altogether Home at 12pm Oct 9th Sat Trip in town during morning. begin the rifle drill before breakfast today. Police in town at night. 80 more convalescent in camp. Look up the two girls for a talk Sunday Oct 10th Go aboard the 'Jupiter' in afternoon with Pte Watkins & Two Girls, have our photo taken aboard also tea. Walk back to Suez & do police until 11-30pm Monday Oct 11th  Police in afternoon and stroll a little way with Lilian & the two kiddies. Home at 7pm. Oct 12th Tues Usual rifle X'ercise before breakfast.  Funeral party from Hospital in afternoon Police in town Wazza at night. Home late. Oct 13th Wed. Usual duties in day. Go aboard Venus' in afternoon. see collision between Indian Marine Auxilliaries, Hardinge and Dufferin. Dufferin also tears large mooring buoy up. See Lilian in town at night when I'm on police Oct 14th Thurs Go into town in morning for ironing, & got usual drill & dig worms for fishing, Go to Nil Bar with Watkins in afternoon when the girls drive up with a picnic tea Fish a little. take a couple of photos and home early. Meet Woodward from the Venus & have a chat over Wolverton at night Police duty in town at night.
Oct 15th Fri Funeral drill in morning, Go for walk to Nil Bar to look for blanket, which I do not find. Afternoon police in town pay of 182 P and town at night Oct 16th Sat Little doing in day, police at Wazza at night Oct 17th Sun Walk in town in morning, Take girls for a walk in afternoon with Nans new camera. go to church and a stroll afterwards. Police duty in town Oct 18th Mon Making flower gardens around tent all morning. go aboard 'Venus' in afternoon. Police in town at night chatting with Mr Woodward & Gilbert  Oct 19th Tues Do washing & print a few photos in morning. 18 convalescent go aboard a boat for Australia. Police in town in afternoon, & spend evening with French & Woodward etc. Home late. Oct 20th Wed Ultimatum given to Greece as to which way she intends fighting, everybody here on the alert. Go for stroll with girls around Biram fair and then to sweet water canal. Duty in Wazza afterwards, Turn the rowdys into bed twice Oct 21th Thurs Duty in town at night, when the boys kick up much trouble & there are a few fights to stop. Home late & have to turn out three times to quieten the camp.
Oct 22nd Fri Quiet day and then develop print a few photos in day. Recive box of biscuits and 28 letters and keep busy for rest of day, until police duty at night. Oct 23rd Sat Police duty in town at night,  a few brawls to quieten, & trot round with Frenchy, & other marines. Oct 24th Sun Felt rather unwell after a bad night and keep in bunk all day write a note to Lil & Nan to excuse myself from meet. Oct 25th Mon Usual duties in daytime, get letters from both girls. Duty in town in afternoon home at 8pm & have a yarn with wounded men. Oct 26th Tues Commandant goes to hospital with stomach trouble in morning, knock about generally and pack up all knick-knacks and pack send away home. Visit Sgt Mjr English in afternoon & see Lil  & Mrs Tatton-Browne there, Duty on town at night. Oct 27th Wed Duty in Wazza, and have a lively time  with our boys, in and out of the houses. Some of our boys dressing in girls clothes and walking home. Oct 28th Thurs Go on ^police guard all morning to arrest Zealanders in town & get home at 2-30 Meet girls at 4 pm and drive to hospital then to Cafe Nil Bar & walk along canal & back round Arbain. Police at night when we have to put 5 more in caricole  Home at 11-30.
Oct 29th Fri Colonel Riley boards about 200 men here & rejects about 30. Do guard on lines all day. Oct 30th Sat Print Photos in morning and do police in Wazza at night. Oct 31st Sun My odd day, and write letters & read in morning, Soldiers Club until 4pm and go for a walk with the girls and Darkey Stuckey. Chatting with stewards of Omran at night and home on last train 