Author: Arthur James Adams.
Date: 1st November 1915.
Nationality: Australian.
Nov 1st Mon  Do first shift on inlying picquet  and make easy work. wash clothes carving etc. at intervals Write letters at night Nov 2nd Tues Do camp guard again as fresh arrangements are made for police Austin, Flanigan, Murray. Tatler as permanents, Write letters at night Nov 3rd Wed Go in town to post and to get films and attend funeral with firing party talk to Capt Hodgkinson & Sgt English in hospital, Call and see Lil for a few moments at night & arrange for morrow Nov 4th Thurs Do guard in camp and Darky & myself meet the girls at Nil Bar. Got pass for and have a look round the Waterworks take a couple of snapshots from towers. Have tea by side of canal leading to camp. 
Meddy does my turn at night in town Nov 5th Fri Do one picket all day in camp and march up and down in street at night. Burns tries to be funny & I answer him back when I am put under open arrest Go back to camp by last train Nov 6th Sat Stay in camp all day & see Lil for a few moments at night, Quiet evening in camp. Nov 7 th Sun  Nothing of note in daytime, but  the girls and Darky come out and see me at night when we take a stroll across desert toward Khubrey. Mon. Nov 8th  Go up before the beak & beat Burns on the two charges when the commandant then lectures him on the friction between him & the men, He then turns round & gives me a bad character which I demand to be proved. therefore the case is adjourned for another officer to preside Tues, Nov 9th  Quiet day in camp. Sgt Major goes to Cairo on business. Cpl Saxon sent back with him for not wearing tunic in town Funeral for the boys to attend in afternoon. I am left in tent alone, a funny experience.
Wed. 10th Nov Fish for breakfast, first change from eggs since being here Ring up Lil and arrange for her to come out in afternoon Get a few Xtras  in clothing from Red cross society. The two girls come out and we have a fun time in camp Thurs 11th Nov Little of consequence happens Print photos in day for Lil & Nan Sgt Mjr returns at night. I read up Kings Regulations Friday 12th Nov Get my black kit bag with out anything of value inside. Get word about going to Cairo and pack up Go to see Lil who gets off for a hour or two. when we all go down Tewfik road & have nice time. Fresh arrivals in guard tent on return. Pack up everything Sat 13th Nov Meet Dear old Lil and Nan in morning before leaving Suez. Feel very upset that perhaps will never meet Lil again. Read in train most of Journey arrive in Zetoun about 4pm. Meet Bert Baker 3rd Fd . Sun 14th Nov Write postcards in morning also visit 3rd Auxilliary Hospital Heliopolis meet Joey Thompson, Tom Lee & one or two other of our boys  Good chat to Sister Kemp. Do picquet on New Zealand horses at night. No sleep Very cold & heavy dew.
Monday 15th Nov 
Various parades on day I got off
in afternoon to visit J. Lang
in Gezerah Hospital, see Percy
Fraser and Jack Pratley there
Home at 10pm
Tuesday 16th Nov
Got a pass for to go to Barage
but owing to messing around for
1 1/2 hours for pass, do not get there
Have a look round town. Arrange
at printers for cards to be printed
Home at 11 pm
Wednesday 17th Nov
Marches & parades as usual
Take a walk to Marys' Well and
Resting Tree also see the Chapel of
the Sainted Family which is worth
seeing on account of the fine paintings
on wall. Take a couple of snaps
here for to place in Xmas cards
Wed 17th Nov
Go to Helmich soldiers club at
night to play draughts with B Baker
(Marys well at Matarich)
Thursday 18th Nov
Parade for to get plate of [teeth?] rep.
and afterwards go to Cairo to
get photos printed. Meet Shippy and
go together to Pyramids where we
both take photos. Stroll round
town and have a good chat of old 
times home at 10.30. Meet Malcolm
Fergurson in tram.
Friday 19th Nov
March out to village of            &
take a snap of cemetry before breakfast
Very dusty day. Quiet morning in
mess tent chatting. Go into town in afternoon
meet Griffiths B section & Snow Baker A sec
and have a good chat.
Sat 20th Nov
Go out to Gezerah in afternoon & find
that Jack Lang has left for Luxor. see
Andy Davidson who comes with us. Jack
Pratley haves a good yarn with us. in
hospital. Stroll round town at night
Sun 21st Nov
Visit hospital in afternoon (Heliopolis)
and see Kursal at night
Mon 22nd Nov
Spend day in usual drills, pay £1 
Heliopolis at night. Meet J Gaffney &
enjoy a talk of Brisbane
Tues 23rd Nov
Go in town to buy plectrun for Edward
Hartley. E. A. Supt. Stores Khartou
in morning, and go to Maadi in aft
see a few of the old boys & spend
the night in town with A. Palmer
Wed 24th Nov
Usual day, waiting for the order to
move back to Dards. Write letters,
Reinforcements arrive for 3rd, 4th & 5th Fd Amb
Thursday 25th Nov
Do acting corporal in camp for 1st 2nd
3rd 4th & 5th Fd Ambs and take
them out 3 times today for marches
Friday 26th Nov
Sargt Wilkinson about so do full
duties with Fd Amb & take them
out again all day. in various directions
Saturday 27th Nov
Usual corporals duties. in daytime
No parades in afternoon.
Sunday 28th Nov
Take parades alone as Sgt is sick
again. Church parade at 7.30, nothing
afterwards, spend day in camp.

Mon 29th Nov
Usual duties in day as corpl
more reinforcements arrive
Tuesday 30th Nov
Usual marching out with boys
pay 10 /- in afternoon, more reinforcements
Wednesday 1st Dec
Nothing startling. Meet Scotty
Thompson of the old crowd. among the
7th Fd Amb Reinf. March boys out to 
Water Works in morning & mess shed later
in afternoon.
Thursday 2nd Dec
All prepared to leave, but cancelled
again. Walk out with boys twice in
morning and rest in mess shed in afternoon
Friday
Usual in daytime. go to town in afternoon to
hunt up parcels but cannot find them, Bert
Baker fights Harper at Stadium and knocks him
out in 90 secs.

Saturday 4th Dec
Fine march before breakfast, afterwards
packing kits and getting away to Cairo
Leave Cairo Station at 4.30 pm arrive Alexandria
at 8 pm express train. embark on Hospital Ship
'Assaye' good bunks. & conditions, meet Capt Fry. 
Weigh   Sunday 5th Dec
One short parade at 2 pm, roll call, dismiss
weigh anchor at 3 pm lots of Hospital ships
& 2 battleships here. majority of large
interned steamers and sailing craft have
been taken out of harbour.
Monday 6th Dec
Day passed as quietly as possible
fine weather, comfortable quarters. Take a 
few rounds with gloves in evening.
Tuesday 7th Dec
Fine morning at revelle but gets very
heavy later. arrive at Lemnos about 12 pm
go ashore by means of barge & sleep in a 
large hospital tent. in No 2 Stationery Hos.
Wed 8th Dec
Up at 6-30, breakfast and get
away to pier, where we arrive by
means of lighter to a cattle boat
'Rowan' which takes us on to the
Peninsula. leaving Lemnos at 4 pm
Very foggy night, everybody expecting to
be torpedoed. Arrive safely at N. beach
at 12.30 am and find our way round
to the old camp. Everything altered
Taffy Jones & Ben Barnes sit up and
yarn until I fall asleep about 2 am
Up at 7 am and fix up dug out. Go
down to H.D.M.S. with list of men for 3rd
and bring back to our camp all the
2nd Reinforcements. Busy talking to
old mates & improving dug out all day
Yarning with Tommy Deasy all evening.

Thursday 9th Dec
Friday 10th Dec
No duty for me, Bert on Q M fatigue
take 8 photos in camp, Watch a very
heavy bombardment by cruisers & monitors
which seem to blow olive grove out but
Beachy Bill soon begins again, Weather
getting rather bleak.
Saturday 11th Dec
On duty up Victoria Gully from 8.30 am
until tomorrow 8.30 am. Have a trip
through 7th & 1st Bde trenches, magnificent
firing line, fairly busy with sick in daytime
and wounded at night. Report morse
signalling from 8th Batt ridge to Turks, to  
9th Batt who investigate.
Cpl over us is a 11th Reinf of 2nd Fd Amb.
much dissatisfaction.
Sunday 12th Dec
Take a stroll round and secure a
few snaps. 20 of our chaps are
sent over to the 2nd Lt Horse Fd Amb to
reinforce. Have an easy day all through
Dug out is very comfortable.
Monday 13th Dec
Q.M fatigue in day. and at night we
carry all store panniers & Ambulance
goods round to N. pier. very risky
journeys too as Beachy Bill was popping
over all the time. finish about midnight
when we get a good tot of rum and a feed
of tinned chicken.
Tuesday 14th Dec
Score a few extras in clothing, and
pack up quickly for to go on guard of
our material on beach. Carry a heavy
load round & Beachy Bill just
misses several times. Take our stores
on to tug River Fisher.

15th Dec Wednesday
Spend a fair night, which becomes very
rough, Meet young W. Jeffries of Nambour
and have a good yarn with him.
Enemys shells narrowly miss us in morning
and we shift over a bit toward C Suvla
Meet Carter aboard later in day.
Storm ceases about midday, Loading up
with ammunition and Indian ambulance
stuff. Mutiny among the crew. 1st Mate
attempts to throw skipper overboard
about 2 am and about 8 am tries to
knife him. Naval Captain comes
aboard and gives them straight 
talk
Thursday 16th Dec
Our wheel house getting very dirty
weigh anchor about 10 am and reach
Lemnos at 9 pm. stay outside harbour
all night.

Friday 17th Dec
Come into harbour early and take
anchorage near small island detention
camp.I later put alongside the
Lake Michagen which takes all the
Indians aboard. move our anchorage
to inner harbour close to the 
Aragon (headquarters ship) Short
of food today.
Saturday 18th Dec
Put alongside the Achaia which
has most of the guns from 'Anzac'
aboard. also go aboard the
neighbour ship 'City of Edinboro' but
sleep the night on Achaia
1st mate put under close arrest
by navy. & taken away.
Sunday Dec 19th
Real ragtime doings, shifting cargo
from River Fisher to 'Achaia'
Troops entering harbour and sorting
themselves from one boat to another.
Nothing of interest.
Monday Dec 20th
Little doing so unloading has been
stopped for fresh orders. Do a little
cooking, tarts & scones. also fix up a fair
dinner with potatoes & peas.
Tommies working party again unload
River Fisher at night and come across
some cases of wine on which they get
well drunk and fight together on our
deck for a couple of hours. Real hell.
Tuesday Dec 21st
Little rain and gale gets up heavy in
morning but quietens at night.

Wed Dec 22
Do a little washing clothes. Game of
football aboard Achaia. cooking scones etc
Thurs Dec 23
Still unloading ammunition on to Achaia
Drunken brawl on both boats last night
Go alongside the Novian and get aboard
Fri Dec 24
Left Novian last night & slept on
hatches of River Fisher, Rains heavy
early in morning and drives us out, Go over
to [Umsingi?] & leave ammunition, then to Aragon
where we leave mail, arrive City of Edinburgh at 6 pm
Sat 25th Dec
Spent a comfortable night on Edinburgh and
have a fair day. Noisy concert at night
Sunday 26th Dec
Working unloading medical stores in
holds all day. Ships Sgt Mjor dropped dead 
Two tommies arrested for thieving.

Mon Dec 27th
River Fisher leaves us at last and
then boats are quickly in her place
unloading stores of all kinds
Tues Dec 28
Unloading rations in afternoon. Receive
Australian Billy Cans which causes
everybody aboard to be happy
Wed Dec 29
Loading horses, & mules, also about 300
more men, I have to shift quarters
into stables where Hoppy & Kal & I
find a nice place, better than ever.
Thurs Dec 30th
Weigh anchor & leave the harbour at
3 am all prepared to be torpedoed
Parade at 11 am, Billies given out to all
latest Tommy arrivals, write letters of
appreciation to donors of Billies.
Fri, Dec 31st
Open arrest for refusing to do
Cooking for Barkshire Col Wallace
(Scotch Colonial) & the three of us
Baker, Hoppy & I went up and Xplain
case to O/C of ship & were dismissed
Have to shift quarters but sleep
in the old place at night
