Author: Arthur James Adams.
Date: 1st March 1916.
Nationality: Australian.

Wednesday 1st Mar Fix up stretcher stands in tent. Shift camp into adjoining site & do a bit of good work.
Thursday 2nd Mar Case of stout missed from Q.M. tent.
full parade & lecture on honesty by O.C. Build a dugout in sand hill

Major Ross leaves us & Major Walsh
takes his place, Go to pictures at night
Friday 3rd Mar Build large cookhouse today
& take a walk over to 3rd Field Amb
Sat 4th Mar Fix up dispensary with necessaries
Have a drink with the crowd all 
evening. Ordered to fill in dug out
Sun 5th Mar
Little doing in day, carving pipes & reading. Hoppy comes over for a walk 
in afternoon.
Mon 6th Mar
Write letters home at night
begin sleeping out again Tues 7th Mar
Lend Ronfree 50p when he goes &
gets drunk on same
Wed 8th Working in new dispensary E. P tent
also on drying racks. in morning &
have holiday in afternoon
Thursday 9th Mar Go to Cairo on leave. Draw £25 fronfrom Anglo Egyptian Bank. from Bris Commonwealth Bank. Draw £1 from Intermediate Base.  Have a very enjoyable day with J Gillies Stay near Hotel National at night a
big French Chateau
Friday 10th Mar Have a good day in Cairo. Visit
Citadel. yarn with Sgt Mjr Mulhall take a few photo's from Minarets of Mosques a few gharry drives & home at night where I meet N. Cootes & Pocky McFarlane and a few others en route for Ismalia
Saturday 11th March Orderly Room in morning & receives  2 days 2nd Fd Punishment &  4 days pay. Capt Sprint speaks very
much in favour of me to the O.C. Resume carpenters work. 
Sunday 12th March Do a little work in morning and
see football in afternoon. Jack Lang
&  Hoppy visit me at night
Monday 13th March Usual routine in daytime Tuesday 14th March Go to Engineers to try for transfer
have a good yarn with Sgt Gray
Wednesday 15th March Kalamunda goes to Cairo with Otto. K. & gives a laughable exhibition at night
Thursday 18th Mar Pay day. Kala & I go to Engineers & find that I am Just too late to get a  transfer into 13th Engineers. adjourn to Canteen
& afterwards to our Mess Hut where we
had the pleasure of telling Robinson's our mind They were the essence of cuss  &  would not fight Visit the 3rd Fd Amb & stop to tea Try 8th Engineers for vacancy (no luck) Go to fight at Stadium with Jack Lang Hoppy & Gaunt. Friday 17th Mar Usual routine Sat 18th Mar Rough weather in day. lots of men sick through para-typhus innoculation, 26
reinforcements came to us. Stormy night H Floyd joins us
Sunday 19th March Feeling effects of innoculation & rest in tent. tents being erected for newcomers
Take a walk along canal in afternoon visit the 3rd Fd Amb. call on
both YMCA's, quiet evening
writing. Monday 20th March  
Tuesday  21st March Staff Groves promoted to WO. & Anderson to Lt Qm
Wednesday 22nd Mar Prince of Wales inspects camp & I take a couple of snaps  of him. Holiday in afternoon
Thursday 23rd Mar
Usual routine, Kennedy returns at night. Our advance guard leaves for Serapium this morning
Mar 24th Friday Usual routine, getting ready for  departure. Jacky Lang comes over
for a yarn. A man shoots himself
in Engineers camp next door. Print photographs today.
Mar 25th Sat Troops begin to march to Serapium Keyds brother calls in for tea. O'Gorman returns Mar 26th Sun
Writing signboards , etc in Morning Getting new gear together in afternoon
Lots of baggage going through on camel 
trains. Andy & I go & say farewell to the 3rd Mar 24th Mon Pack kits in morning and fall in
ready to trek. play cricket at night Tom Maxman comes over for a yarn. Go to circus with Kalamunda at night. Meet Smyth  of the 11th Batt & have a talk of 25th April. Send parcel home through ' Cooks.' Cairo
March 28th Tues Paper reports loss of Mineatspolis in Mediterranean. March out for practice with kits on March 29th Wed Tidying up camp, marching order
parades in morning.
Mar 30th Thur Andy Davidson & I go for a sail up 
Sweet water canal and then look 
through two villiages on other side of canal from camp. See a fine
gathering of people buying & selling various wares. Chat & have coffee
with some Arabies in villiage, Home at 3 pm when most of the tents are 
down. Clean up camp, evening in canteen sleep in mess shed
Mar 31st Fri March out of camp at 7am and halt for dinner at 11-30, 9 miles distant Move off at 1 pm and make Mahsama at 3-30 & bivouac ½ mile from villiage. Visit dry canteen & villiage
& bring goodies enough to enjoy a real good & varied tea. Four of us go to a camp fire concert with the Brigade & turn in for a good
sleep at 10 pm
April 1st Sat Make jokes on awaking and move off at 7am again. Halt at midday along canal, very hot. Kalamunda & crowd pass in barges. get two tins of milk & in of rabbit from Kala & enjoy  some at evening tea. Transport fails us, and after waiting at Mouska camp
for 2 hrs we return to them & bivy  Have tea in dark. everybody grumbling Sleep alongside canal
April 2nd Sun Move off at 7am and on reaching Nefiche the transport again fails. when
we transfer blankets etc to barges Halt for 2 hrs outside Nefiche & do a hard  2 hrs journey before halting then again we move off & 
after heavy sand walking reach
a dry canteen where we have a
snack. Have a swim in Suez 
Canal and march into camp at 4 pm as fresh as daisies.  Bivvy out April 3rd Mon Spend nearly all day in canal  on W side. I got sunburnt. Capt Brooks & Maj Cade in charge, Our barges return. & we work unloading them until 12 pm. Bivvy out, very cold & windy. Take photograph of grave of Major Von Dem Hagen. Killed 4-2-15 on bank
of canal (photo on Apri 8th) April 4th Tues Work hard all day erecting tents
& by night the camp looks well. Kala goes batman to W.O. Groves  April 5th Wed B section gets day leave & 
A section does all duties in payment for hard work on camp. etc. & I start carpentering again . 
April 6th Thur
A section gets leave. & Scotty & I go to Great Bitter Lake & fish &
swim all day. 7 miles each way so  feel tired on return. April 7th Fri Fish for breakfast. Scotty very
unwell all day. I go for bathe in canal  with the boys in afternoon . G. Murray in for chat in evening 
Begin gargle Xercise in morning for meningitis.

April 8th Sat
Build cookhouse for officers cooks.
fit Staff Kemp's dispensary up, & 
have diarrhae very bad today.
April 9th Sun
Stomach very bad, also through day
busy fixing up camp with odds &
ends.  Sentry box patent 
April 10th Mon
Build carpenters shelter etc etc
do not go to canal today.  Walk
around camp at night with A Davidson
April 11th Tues
Reorganising the camp, move our
bell tents.  60 ydz up camp. Go for 
bathe in afternoon.
April 12th Wed
Work in morning.  Picnic on canal side with 
all the tent in afternoon, Dust storm rises on our
return & lots of tents come down at night
also cookhouses. huts etc  blow over
Thurs, April 13th
Dust storm (Khamseen) continues. and causes
much trouble in camp, no parades
Fri. April 14th
Still stormy.  but have a good breakfast in tent, by
cooking bacon on primus, Andys birthday & drink his health.
Sat April 15th
33 Prisoners from desert brought in by light
horse.  one of our corporals shot, Kala, Gaunt, Tim Lee
go to Cairo.  Building cookhouse again
Sun April 16th
Quiet day in camp.  lovely weather, much
bombing practice in trenches every day now
Mon. April 17th
Usual in daytime, Cicognani under open
arrest for bathing without leave, Christen
& nominate Reid as one of our society
at night.  Receive cable telegram from Mr Walton
Manager of Anglo Egyptian Bank.
Tuesday April 18th
Board sits & examines patients for
Australia in our camp.  odd jobs in day
Wed April 19
Little of consequence.
Thursday Apr 20th
Gen Sir Arch Murray & staff including
Prince of Wales. inspects all of the
camp.  Holiday in afternoon, 55 Reinfs’
arrive.  Apply leave 48 hrs for Cairo.
Friday Apr 21st
Good Friday. Take a holiday
no buns etc
Sat Apr 22nd
Put partition in mess hut.
All tents rearranged.
Sun Apr 23rd
Church Service in mess hut in morning
Holiday in afternoon
Parades re Anzac ribbons
Mon Apr 24th
Odd jobbing in day & arrange
everything for tomorrow, Tuesday 25th April when
Andy, Baker W & all the old
crowd together with a few
visitors.  go down to Canal 
& spend the day in picnic
Arise at 4.30 am and assemble
in our tent after hoisting the
Jack outside, Toast, The King & our
fallen comrades.  our officers
the 'Ribble' crew.  The 29th Division
The A & N Z A C. etc with
whisky & milk.  Transport takes
our beer & food etc to canal
& we return about 5.30 p.m.
Tea & go to canteen at night
for a few more drinks
Wednesday 26th Apr
Make up squads in morning when
I make a squad of Manly Baker
Fergusson, Barloveld & Scotty Thomas
Very hot weather again.
Thursday 27th Apr
Very bad cold on chest.  Little of 
interest write letters home & Australia
Friday 28th April
Turn out with the 4th Division for
long march & maneuvres (Divisional)
Saturday 29th Apr
Manly & Cic go to town
Sun 30th Apr
Leave camp at 6pm & take 7-15 train
from Serapeum to Cairo. where I arrive
about 11.30.  Sleep in Esbikiah St &
call at bank in morning.  Have great 
chat to Mr Walton, & spend day in 
business for the Coys, Meet Dunleavy &
Cecil Webber & have a good old talk
about old friends.  Quiet evening in
wine shop. & sleep at Anzac Hostel.
Up early & ramble around the 
bazaars, native quarters, see the 
old Slave Marketplace.  Catch 6-15 from 
Cairo station & arrive in camp about
12pm.
Wednesday 3rd May
Odd jobbing in morning.  Report to Fiasche
& get a wash, Afternoon holiday.
Thursday 4th May
Receive field p.c. from Tommy Deasy
in France.  Go down to canal for bathe
Friday 5th May.
Packing up kits ready to move
& making packing cases for hospital
Full kit parade for O.C. in afternoon.
Sat 6th May
27 Reinforcements arrive from
Details .  Print a few photos.
Sun 7th May.
Not much doing.  spend afternoon
in dentists tent watching him
work.  Write home also to Mrs Walton 
Mon 8th May
Strike camp in morning & help
Kempy pack medicines.  March out
to 'rail head' at 4 pm arrive 
about 6 pm feeling A.1.  Piper helps
us along the march but the
drummer gets a rough time.
Black hand again scores.
Tuesday 9th May
Fix up camp in smart style &
are already quite at home, meet a few
old Zeitoun friends in 12th Fd Amb who
are camping against us.  Lots of ammunition
going through
10th M Wednesday
Go to CRE to order timber and
potter about generally
11th May Thursday
Go to last camp for various
timber.  and call in at the Sgts mess
4th Fd where I meet Smallcomb & Ernie
12th May Friday
March out to road head camp and
pick camp at train junction corner
very hot
13th May Sat
Build cookhouse & latrines. during 
day.  have two extra men
14th May Sun,
Apply for to be relieved from timber
work.  Boss gang on horse shelter in
afternoon. & work until 9 pm.  cocoa.
Advance party of 60lb guns pitch 
alongside about 10 pm

Mon 15th May
Remain on parade in morning.  Take
a holiday today, Very hot winds.
wrote letters, Walked to trenches & take
photos. & march back to RH camp at 8 pm
Tues May 16th
Dusty hot windy day, all our kits
returned from Serapeum E camp.  Pinch
a little stout, & enjoy morning then
at night Capt Ingram calls me to tent
& makes me spend a Jolly evening with him!!!
Wed, May 17th
Lovely Day, Stayed in camp while
the boys went to Canal.  fat head
did a few odd jobs
Thurs May 18
Very hot day & I march down to
canal & have a swim with the 
boys but ride back in motor bus
Friday 19th
March in and out from Canal &
enjoy a good time in water
Sat 20th May
Lovely weather & spend the
day in Canal again
Sun 21st May
Church Parade in morning but no
parson comes so we ar dismissed
Mon 22nd May.
March in and out from Canal & 
spend a lovely day 
Tues 23rd May
Inspection of camp by A.D.M.S. &
do stretcher work on desert, Boys march
to canal in afternoon,  I print photos
of Anzac Day.
Wed 24th May
Inspection of kit in morning & pay at 
night
Thursday 25th May
Kit parade
Friday 26th May
Sat 27th May
Kit parade.  lots of material taken
away from us.
Sunday 28th May
Inspection of drill uniform for the
benefit of HR.H. Anderson & at
6 11 pm Church Parade
Monday 29th May
Full marching order parade with
all belongings. & more blankets
taken away.  Swimming in daytime.
Tuesday 30th May
On Dental Parade. & have a
quiet day
Wednesday 31st May
Swimming in daytime.
4th Bde leave. camp
