Author: James Joseph Makin
Rank: Private
Regiment: 9th/21st Battalion
Date: Unknown
Nationality: Australian

Text:
 
Dearest Mother & Father,
As you see we are once more on the move, but it is not permitted to give you any particulars of the boat, destination etc.  By the time this reaches you, you will probably have heard where we are or rather where we shall be.  We do not even know ourselves where we shall finish up, but most of us are mighty glad to be out of Egypt.  We saw quite enough of it in our eleven days' sojourn there.  We were taken by surprise for we expected to stay in camp in Egypt for a month or so at least.  I was able to get out to see the Pyramids and Citadel, which are the most important places from a tourist's point of view.  I shall post some of my diary at a later date, when any information therein cannot be of any use to anyone.
 
I have not time now to write much news.  It is enough to know that I am in excellent health and in the best of spirits.  I am a bit disappointed at not hearing anything of Les but I think he will still be in England.  I suppose he has been inquiring about me also.  We have been wearing life belts ever since we came on board as a precautionary measure in case of submarine attack.  It has been rumoured that there are submarines in the vicinity, so this helps to break the monotony of the voyage.  I shall not be sorry when we reach terra firma again.  My address will be the same as before, viz, Intermediate Base Depot, Egypt. 

I shall notify them when we find out our address.  I have not had any letters yet and I don't expect any for about a month now that we have moved again.  I hope you are getting mine regularly for I am writing at every opportunity.  I sent away some silks last Saturday but I suppose they will be delayed.  The war news was very healthy whilst we were in Egypt if one can rely on Egyptian papers, Turkey was supposed to be on the verge of collapse, Roumania about to enter the war on the side of the Allies, and the German offensive at Verdun had failed with heavy losses.
 
I must close now as everyone is trying to sling hammocks, knocking my arm, and shaking the table.  Remember me to Mrs Spence and tell her that I tried to find out where Norman was in Cairo but was unsuccessful.  I also sought after the whereabouts of Jim Duggan, but did not find him.  
 
Remember one to Auntie Kate, Eileen and Doll when you see them, also Aunt Eliza.  Write as often as you can and send a few papers now and then and I shall be much obliged.
 
Love to all from 
Your affectionate son,
Jim.
 
P.S. I shall write again as soon as we arrive at our destination.