
Author: James Joseph Makins
Regiment: 3rd Battalion Coy 
Location: Gehezirch Palace Cairo Egypt
Date: 8 July 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:
 
Dear Charles.
I have just received your letter today, Jim brought it to me, it is the first letter I have had since I first landed in Egypt, it was in a very battered state have been following me about for a long time, it was marked missing so that accounts for the rest of my mail going astray. On the day you wrote yours, we went into action and got a bullet through the arm seven hours after landing, it was only a small wound but it cut the sineurs, and my hand has been very near useless ever since, it will be 11 weeks on Sunday since we landed, but I have not been in the hospital all the time when my arm healed up I went to Zeitoum training camp but I could not do any drill and very near got sent back to Australia, but I managed to get sent into this hospital as I had to undergo an operation but I am alright now, I have been in bed for 18 days so I shall soon be getting up and around going to a convalescent home for a spell and then back to the trenches. Well we had a pretty lively time when we rushed a 
landing on the 25 of April, it is a day I shall never forget, on the night before we lay down on the decks, as usual, to go to sleep if the lice would let us, (you must we were all to go to sleep very lousy  ) we were pulled out of bed about 4 o’clock in the morning it was very dark but we had to roll up our blankets and get some tucker into us and be ready to go ashore, Just as it started to get.
daylight the Turck started to bombard our ships with shrapnel and big shells and our battleships started too it was a great sight while we were on the ship to see the water fly up when the shells dropped into the bay. We had to get off our boat onto a destroyer and she went for the shore like the wind with shells dropping around us, then the water got too shallow to go any closer, so we had to get in rowing boats and all the time the destroyer was racing about like a mad dog so that the Turks could not get our range. Our first boat tried to row ashore but they sank her, so a pinnace took about 6 boats in tow and away we went again full rip when she got about 20 yards from the beach she cut us adrift and sheered out to sea while we went racing into the beach like a breaker but my boat bumped a rock and we had to wade ashore as best we could, a lot of men got wounded before they got out of the boats, as soon as we were on shore we ran up the cliffs to the firing line and got busy. We had no shelter or artillery to protect us so the Turks warmed us up a bit. At first their shrapnel went screeching over our heads but they soon got it onto us and chopped us up very bad, a shell fell in front of me about 6 yards away, but it failed to explode and I was thankful, then one burst right over my head the concussion driving my nose into the ground and a slug hitting me on the shoulder but it did no damage, I picked it up ( it was pretty hot) and show it to a lieutenant who was along-side of me. while he was looking at it he got shot through the shoulder, I just had time to say poor b___ when I got one through the arm, it was terrible men were groaning everywhere but we had to lay low till the machine gun stopped firing then cut back over the hill to the beach with snipers potting at us all the way. I am glad to hear that you are working again I heard, that you were in the hospital again, I suppose things are pretty slack in Bulli a present. Remember me to Uncle and Aunt and cousins and tell them I hope to see them before very long. I will now draw this scribble to a close wishing you good health and hoping to hear
from you shortly.
Yours Sincerely
J. H Croft
Note: only address No.2843 Pte Croft

C. Company 3rd Batt. A. I. F.
Cario. Egypt
P.S. Jim Pankhurst is doing alright he has had a cold but is now better and ready for work again.



The Young Men's Christian Association
WITH 
H.M.Mediterranean Expeditionary Force in Egypt      
From..No.2 General Hospital   

