 										                                                                          
Author: James Joseph Makin
Location:  A I F Headquarters 130 Horseferry Road London Date:  25 May 1918
Nationality: Australian 
Text:                                                                                     
My dear Mother & father,
Since my letter of a week ago I have not received any further letters from home, and consequently I have not got as much news to write about. I am now comfortably settled down in my new residence, and I like it very well.  It is only about 20 minutes walk from Putney Heath, a beautiful strip of country in spring and summer.
During the last week or so all the trees, which have been bare and cheerless throughout the dreary winter months, have burst into leaf. Yesterday afternoon was beautifully fine, and being Sat. we had the afternoon off.  My pal and room  companion (a Sydney boy named Fred Juergens) accompanied me in  a long walk across the common.
We made up with a number of small boys and bought into a game of cricket. The kids were honored for us to play with them, and played their hardest.
In the evening we went to the suburban theatre to a spy-play called "Inside the Lines."You have no idea of the row kicked up by the gallery folks, almost making the actors inaudible. 
The poorer Classes of Londoners are frightfully ignorant, and have no parallel in Melbourne in this respect.
Les is still at Warminster. I daresay you have as late news of him as of me, as I suppose our letters travel home together. I told you, I think, that I had thrown figures to the wind. I am now a correspondent in the Allotments Section and I write 30 or 40 letters to the various States of Australia every day. I dictate as many as eighty letters a day to my typist, right from the files.  
It takes about a month before one becomes accustomed to the work, and it is about the only job I have been in since I enlisted where I can show a little individuality. I shall not be long in getting another stripe on this work I think, if I get my dues; but of course one  seldom gets that in the army.
When the last lot of promotions came out and I was excluded you could have knocked me down with a feather. It was a great injustice and I told the responsible Lieut off in great style. It remains to be seen whether he will nurse a grudge against me in consequence; probably he will. Brian Rush, formerly of the Customs in Melbourne is a Lieut in Finance, but in a different section. Harry knows him I think. I often see Charlie Dunn of Armstrong St. He is a Lieut in the Engineers, and is stationed down at Salisbury Plains somewhere. Cricket has started again in England. The long nights (it is quite light enough to play at 9 o'clock) are suited for plenty of practice, and England should produce the best cricketers in the world. The Westminster School, about the largest public school in London has an oval at Vincent Square right in front of our building. 
All the boys of this school pass from cadet schools, and all become officers. Every afternoon they are playing cricket or football and I believe much more time is devoted to sport than to learning. Looking from my window across to the ground, I am always longing for my school days again, and think of these long wasted months. Wasted of course I mean in my own selfish light, but I suppose I am helping to vanquish old Fritz. All the same, and in this sense perhaps the time is not wasted. It has been raining heavily all the morning, but the sun is just beginning to shine again, and I am looking forward to a good long walk this afternoon. After a week of solid indoor walk I breathe a sigh of relief on Saturdays. Now is the time when it is good to be alive.  After months of foggy wet weekends, one sees the sun, and walking about the streets one notices the Australians basking like so many snakes. Their faces are fairly radiant with the joy of being alive. On such days as these we needs must think of our sunny native land, and wonder what our good people are doing.
I trust you are all well and happy. I should give a lot to know you are not worrying overmuch, and fretting at the time it is taking to finish this ghastly business and bring us back to our loved ones. Best love and kisses from your affect. son, 
Jim 