Author: James Joseph Makin
Location:  France  Date:  1 May 1916 Nationality: Australian

Text:

France, 1/5/16.
Dear Father,
Just a line to let you know that I
am getting on alright so far, and up to 
the present have had nothing to complain 
of. I am not sorry, or never have been, 
that I enlisted when I did. On the 
contrary I have often thought that I 
should have come before I did, although 
it was hard whilst Les was in danger 
to think of asking mother.
Although it is not three months since 
I left home, it seems much longer. I 
think I can claim to be a better man 
than when I was at home, chiefly 
because such a life as one leads as 
a soldier on active service cannot help 
but broaden one's mind and make him 
look on the better side of life. All 
petty troubles and quarrels fade before 
the one great aim, which is to carry the 
war through and get home as quickly 
as possible. One lives with men of all 
stations, creeds, character, ideals, and 
from them he sees his own weaknesses,
and, if he possesses sufficient will power, 
he corrects them.
Arguments will arise, - very hot arguments indeed - and men will express themselves 
very forcibly - perhaps it will lead to 
blows, - but immediately the argument drops, 
things go on as before. There is no such 
thing as a difference of opinion lasting 
more than an hour or two at the most.  
I often think that if ever I get back 
it will be a new life, so to speak- 
just like being born again.
What do you think of Les remaining
in England so long? I can imagine 
mother and Ruby hoping he will be kept 
there altogether. I got a letter from him 
yesterday telling me how he won his 
promotion at Gallipoli. You must know
how I was longing to hear his tale 
before I went went into action myself. I had 
to drag it out of him by writing him all 
questions in my letters. Even now it is only 
the barest outline, and told so reluctantly 
and modestly that I feel that this
modesty is just as praiseworthy as the 
actual deeds themselves. Have you ever 
been able to draw anything from him about
his campaign or his sickness? He says 
he has had a good time lately, but how well has he earned it? I think I could
get letters quicker through him than direct
from home. At any rate I have asked
him to let me have the news after each 
mail he gets from home.
He has made a  very good friend in a 
Dr. Gibson, an English R.A.M.C. man. I dare say
he has mentioned him in his letters home.
I received a letter from Capt. Gibson, and 
from the tone of it he has great admiration
for Les, and he wants to get to know me
because he says Les has often spoken,
to him of me. I am awaiting . an opportunity
to answer his letter, but we do not get
much time for writing.
I am still in the same training camp
and it is five weeks tonight since we
arrived in France. I am feeling a 
much more efficient soldier, but have
still a lot to learn for the "Germhuns" are
no mug fighters, by all accounts.
They tried to "strafe" us with a few bombs
on "Anzac" night but happily made some
good misses. The sound of the explosions
was terrific in the still night air, but we did not lose much sleep. We saw the 
craters caused by the bombs next day, and
they are evidently very powerful bombs.
Les, was telling me that he saw them 
bring down the L15, the Zeppelin which
landed at the Thames mouth. It must
have been a good sight.
We go for a route march to neighbour ing villages now and than. The young 
crops are about 6 inches high, and 
hares can be seen stealing away in 
almost every crop. I always think of
you, and think how you would like
to be near with your "double -barrel". It would 
be fine sport with some good greyhounds,
There are also a few rabbits about. Do you
ever go out shooting now? I will be 
going out shortly, but after Huns instead
of game. How is Perce getting on this
year? I should try and keep him at
school as long as possible if I were you.
I am sure that it is the better plan, and
he will thank you for it later on in life.
All he wants is a little encouragement
now and than and to be shown that you
are interested in his work, and he will be a good boy, I am sure. I am looking
forward to some letters from you all.
I think they will be regular once they
start coming.
It is pleasing that the Irish rebellion
is not as alarming as it was thought
and is now dying out. It is most 
regretable that it should have occurred
at this time. It is the fanatical Sinn
Feiners at the bottom of the trouble, & 
the Nationalist Party under Redmond is
absolutely against them. It is astounding
when you see the Irish regiments here
in France, fighting along with the rest
of us-Australians, N-Z-ers, & Canadians.
The news of Townshend's surrender was
a big shock and it certainly does not
improve the situation  in Mesopotamia.
Like the Dardanelles adventure the Turks
have again been held too cheaply.
I must now finish off as I have
more letters to write and my time is
very limited, so will now say goodbye
till you hear next mail.
Your affectionate son,
Jim