Author: James Joseph Makin
Location:  France Date:  4 June 1916 Nationality: Australian

Text:

France, 4/6/1916
Dearest Mother & Father,
There is no mail out this week but
I am writing now so that it will not
seem a long time between the dates
of my letters. You can always rest
assured that I write every mail, and
that if they do not arrive regularly, they
are delayed somewhere.
Since my last letter several of your
letters have come to hand, and also two
parcels. The third one containing socks,
which you mention as having sent, has
not yet come, but will come in time
I hope.
I am glad to hear that you are 
getting letters regularly from Les. This
should relieve you of some of your
anxiety. I trust you are not worrying
over me, for I am "A1 at Lloyd's"- 
as Mr. Irwin used to say. There is
not much prospect of me being in
any scraps for a good while yet I 
am afraid, and when I do get
there, you must not think I shall
"forget to duck". I was rather surprised to hear that
Jack Frood had enlisted, but supposed
he was married before this. I do not
remember ever putting my name on
any locker at Broadmeadows, but it
is just possible that it got there. It
was rather strange that he should have
seen it, in any case. You did not
say whether the Ballarat people
enjoyed themselves, but I daresay they
appreciated the change. Plenty of
pictures at the Danc, suppose?
I can imagine you were awaiting
my letter from Egypt anxiously. There
was no mail despatched between Perth
and Suez, which accounts for the long
time. I was glad you got my cable,
otherwise you may have been worried.
It has been said in some
letters that there was a rumour abroad
that the Warilda was sunk, but I
trust you never heard it.
 It is rather funny to think of you writing to me on April, 4th
thinking I was melting under a
burning Egyptian sun, and toiling
on desert sands, when at that
time I was here with the temperature
almost at freezing point and being
almost pierced with cold winds. Too
bad, altogether! But since then the 
weather has become almost perfect.
We have now had a succession
of many weeks of beautiful Spring
weather, and at times the sun has
been quite hot. I am anxious
to know when my letters from Egypt
arrived, and if my diary "materialized".
You must not judge it too harshly,
for I make no attempt to obtain
any literary effect, but strive only
to record my doings from day to day
as simply as possible, and as briefly as 
is convenient. Please overlook any
mistakes, and attribute them more to 
carelessness than to ignorance. At present my diary makes much more
entertaining reading, but to send it, I
am afraid, would be quite out of the. 
question. I have not received any
papers from home, but they are sent 
to the battalion, where it would be
too much trouble to return them
back to here. I daresay they are
appreciated up there, nevertheless. It
would be better, if you wished one to
see anything of interest in a paper, to
cut it out and enclose it in your letters.
I think I have all Ruby's letters
but none from Perce so far. Tell him to
write now and then, for I am very
interested in his school work. Does
he still forget his lunch now and then?
I am writing to Ruby this mail
also and I can tell her about the
parcels better.
Trusting you will keep in good
spirits and keep up a brave front, and
until I write again,
Your affectionate son,
Jim.

