Author: James Joseph Makins
Location: Somewhere in France
Date: 3 July 1916
Nationality: Australian

Text:  Dearest Mother & Father, The mail has been extended until tomorrow, so I shall give you the absolute "last edition" news. First of all, I am quite well and in the best of spirits, - something which I know you most want to hear each mail. That great thing expectation has been at work during the past week, and it is the one thing, which prevents this military life from becoming irksome. The expectation of "something doing" at any time, an impending mail from dear old Melbourne, or of seeing new places and new things keeps us always from noticing hardships, fatigue or monotony. The mail has not yet come, but it is only a matter of days, they say.  Some units had theirs' several days ago - dated 16/5/16. The last fews days have been easy ones, and we have had a good old rest. We have also had a nice hot bath, and a clean change of underclothes, - indeed a boon to those who have become something of a stronghold of those pests of all pests, namely, 'chats'.  So far I have been very fortunate in this respect, but others have had a bad time. There is really very little news to tell you. I could easily write you a lot of stuff, but I am afraid it would not be very interesting. However, two pages looks mean for a letter, - so here goes! My razor having gone blunt and my hair closely resembling a professor, I decided to visit the barber's the other night. There are no red, white and blue posts and barber's poles here to look for, so you just walk along until you see a small board sticking out from a door, and on it written "coiffeur". In you go, sometimes along a passage, (don't hesitate to open any doors you come to), and you will arrive at the saloon. The particular place I struck the other night was something of a family concern. - I was greeted with "bon Soir, Monsieur", shown to the operating chair, and the performance started. Father was busy shaving someone, so mother
cut my hair (and a good cut it was too). In
the meantime several more customers came in,
so further assistance was requisitioned.
It arrived in the person of the daughter -
a girl about 15 or 16 years old. I
moved onto the next chair, and "Miss
"Coiffeuse" proceeded. She lathered my
face with great care, and was lavish 
in the use of soap. I did not know
what was coming, - was surprised at
each move. I fully expected that she
would "carry on" and finish the operation,
but suddenly, my face having been lathered
with meticulous care, I was motioned
to seat No. 3, where father proceeded
to finish the job. This he did with
the speed and touch of the skilled
artist. I was then shown a bowl of
water in a corner, where the superfluous
soap is removed. (Perhaps I looked as
if I wanted a wash) Anyway, the 
incident ended in paying "madame"
"douze sous" (6s), and I bade all three "bon soir", which they returned with
typical French "politesse". I have
learned to confine myself strictly to
English, except of course the universal
"bon soir", "bon jour", "no bon" &c, which
all Australians use by this time. It
is like this, - you think out a nice
little sentence, remember your pronunciation
and surprise Monsieur, who immediately
thinks you speak French and opens
out on you unmercifully "20 to the dozen".
Of course you are hopelessly at sea,
and feel "squashed" (as Rube would say).
So now I plead ignorance and amuse
myself in trying to follow their conversation.
It is amusing to hear our Australian
soldiers adapting themselves to the country
they are in, and its language. In Egypt
the universal salutation was "sayeda"
(good-day); here it is "bon jour, Monsieur"
(sometimes uncommonly like "bonzer
manure"). You never think of saying "Yes" here; it is always "oui, oui".
When you tell anyone anything, and
ask him if he "gets you", it is invariably
"compre?" I doubt if you will "compre"
all this stuff.
We are very jubilant at the news
of a British and French advance
on both sides of the Somme, and hope
it will not be the only one. The
Huns are still striving for a decision
at Verdun, but still with little success.
The Russians are still imitating Johnie
Walker, but have considerably more
than 1820 to their credit.  I see
Billy Hughes is on his way back.
He "sure made some hit in Blighty".
He is only a "pocket edition" in size, but
his speeches have the weight of a Cyclops.
I have not heard from Les since
I last wrote.
Well, dear people, I must now "desist"
as I think I have inflicted already too much
upon you at once.  Yours affect' son, Jim. 