Author: James Joseph Makins
Location: War Hospital Epsom Surrey England    
Date: 7 August 1916
Nationality: Australian

Text:
 I daresay by the time you receive this note you will have heard that I am in England recovering from the shock caused by one of Fritz's high explosive shells bursting alongside me. Well, I am glad to say that I am getting along all right and feel very thankful I am here whole.  You are aware, I suppose, that the Australians have been well in the "box on" lately.  The casualty lists are sufficient to tell you this. At first, I was at Bois Grenier near Armentieres, but when the "big push" started, we were shifted to the Somme front. We had a lot of marching for about a fortnight - from Armentires to Labreche on the Belgian frontier and then to St. Omer where we entrained. We travelled via Calais and Boulogne to Amiens. From there we marched to the firing line through Albert by stages arriving in time to take part in the heavy fighting around Posieres, which the First Division had just taken. Now it is well known that it is harder to hold a position than to win it, and this is how we came to get rather a rough handling. But I must say Fritz never looked like getting it back once we got into it properly.
 Now when you read of the Australians or Tommies taking a village on the Somme front, don't you believe it! All they take is the place where it used to be.  But have you ever tried to realise the scene after such an advance as we have made recently. I know it is an impossible task for one who has not been there to picture it. Even after being there and coming out into peace and quiet, you can hardly imagine its horrors, its pathos, its glory. It has been my lot to go over the ruins of Ovillers,
La Boisselle, Contalmaison and Posieres, and so I can give you some idea of the havoc of our artillery fire and the thoroughness of the German fortifications. There is hardly one brick left standing on another; you have no idea of where the streets used to be; the trees are stripped of leaves and branches, splintered and shattered.  And yet there were large numbers of Germans ready to emerge unharmed from their underground shelters as soon as the bombardment lifted.  

Fritz has brought "dug-out" building to a fine art. I shall describe one of the places I went through at La Boisselle. Trenches had been dug between houses so that there was a veritable network of trenches throughout the village.  The chief warren had about five or six entrances - all from different sections of the trench. In case the village was captured there would be still a chance of escaping from one of the entrances. You descend two flights of stairs to the bottom story about 40 ft. down. Here there are four or five small rooms with glass doors, papered walls, cupboards, stoves, electric lights, and comfortable beds. curtains etc. etc. On the next floor are numerous other small rooms, some of which are fitted with bunks as on board ship. The rooms are all irregularly laid out so as to increase the difficulties of the attacking bombers, and so facilitate escape. Roundabout lies the remains of the German officers' lives of luxury, not in the least conspicuous being countless lager beer bottles. In Posieres, whilst on a water-carrying stunt, I was driven to take cover and ran into what is now our battalion headquarters. It is a low structure of reinforced concrete which has defied thousands of shells.  Below it, an enormous dugout shelters dozens of officers from a hurricane of shells It is of reinforced concrete all through and is over 50 ft. deep. It would probably have been deeper but for striking water. 

This place is the only thing standing in Posieres., and so affords a good target, but it still stands its ground. I shall never forget my journey from Albert up Sausage Gully to La Boisselle and thence to Contalmaison and Posieres. Along this gully, the most fierce and desperate fighting took place on the 1st of July and the succeeding days. In most parts, the debris still lies over this shell-pitted stretch, the salvage of a defeated army.  Grenades (British and German) galore, rifles rusted and broken, broken bayonets, equipment sufficient to re-equip a brigade, unexploded shells (known as "duds" or "backsheesh") and worst of all the rude crosses marking the burial places of those brave lads who started the "big push". 

Nearer the line the horror of the unburied dead is unforgettable. The pathos of the scene engraves itself on the mind. Imagine the dead lying along the tracks by the wayside, in trenches, along parapets - some lying, some kneeling, some standing, some with rifles clutched tightly facing the enemy to the last. Then come nearer still and hear the moans of the fearfully wounded and the plaintive call for stretcher bearers, see the noble bearers carrying back the shattered bodies of the brave lads still possessing hope of life, and all the time the shrapnel whistling and the shells bursting. Come right into the trenches and see the worn-out lads lying asleep along the bottom of the trenches, heedless of shells until hit; some, perhaps, scooping out a shallow grave for some dead comrade; perhaps you will find one writing on a crude cross with tears almost blinding him. 

War'. Such scenes as these hardened ones, make one callous, but what man could remain unmoved when his comrade is struck down beside him? In places, it is death to stand up.  Here the dead are buried beneath the trench itself. I don't know why I am writing all this, but I can't help it. I feel that more should be known of war's horrors so that the sacrifice of the brave dead may be better appreciated by those of us who are spared. Anyone who has been through such scenes will emerge a more sober person, and, I trust, a better man. In a week or so, perhaps, I shall be able to concentrate my thoughts on England and write of its beauty, but now I can think of nothing but war, war, war, always night and day. I cannot think how long it has been since I last wrote to you or where I was at that time. My memory is a bit strained. But I got two or three of your letters just before I went into the trenches. One telling me of the Stawell sports was about the last. I also got the Record and 'Varsity Magazine for which I thank you kindly. I have had a couple of letters from Hughie who writes a very good letter indeed. 

 I am writing to him also this mail, but I am afraid it must be shorter than this. I am glad to hear that you have been down home and that your mother is not fretting too much.  She will have a new worry now that Les is back with his battalion, but I daresay she will be glad. I am hors de combat for a while. I sent a cable to say we were both all right. I hope she got it for these big casualty lists will be a big worry. I regard myself as a very lucky man indeed. Almost the whole of my platoon and company were either killed or wounded before I was buried. I seemed to have a charmed life for many times a shell killed and wounded men on both sides of me and pieces of shell case missed only by a few inches. I was ready for death at any moment but I was spared. I was glad to be of some service in bandaging up wounds and stopping bleeding and I am now sure that my A.M.C. training has not been a waste of time. But I see I am back into war again so I think I must stop. I notice in one of your letters you want to know if French maidens still possess their traditional charm and beauty. Well, I am afraid I do not know. You see they have no charm for me and I am afraid I have not much of an eye for beauty. I must say that I am not in a position to judge them for I have not been in the best parts of France. Those I have seen will not bear comparison with the Australian girl (as we know her). I shall give you my opinion of the English maiden when I am more competent to judge.
 Remember me to the boys (and girls) Your old pal, 
Jim.
 