Author: James Joseph Makins
Location: France
Date: 20 July 1916 
Nationality: Australian

Text:
                             Dearest Mother & Father, I do not think there has been a mail out for some time, but I am writing in case an opportunity of posting letters presents itself. There seems to be a good deal of uncertainty about the mails lately, and it is only a couple of weeks ago since the mail was to have been closed for six weeks, but this decision has evidently been cancelled. During the last couple of weeks I have been leading a sort of wandering life, travelling from village to village by day and finding shelter at night in a barn, shed, or empty house, - in fact, any place which offers shelter from the elements. But don't think for a moment I have resigned from the army and have taken to the track as a sort of tramp or "sundowner."  The fact is that my unit has been on the move, performing the journey in fairly easy stages and billeting at night in small townships and villages. 

The whole thing would be something like a walking tour on a large scale, and just as enjoyable, but for the fact that one perforce carries all his belongings on his back, and moves along at the will of the Battalion Commander, instead of "judging your own time," as it were.  Naturally, there are times when one longs to linger on some more striking landscape and feast the eye on some scene of tranquil peace and prosperity - and there are many such each day, but we are not tourists exactly, and so we must plod on and try our best to divert our thoughts from the weight of the pack, the hard cobbles of the road, or the dry feeling in our thirsty throats.  Besides the new surroundings we are constantly moving in, we use other artificial means to cheer ourselves on the march; mouth organs are usually well to the fore, and we march to ragtime quite as well as to any of the popular songs.  One favourite, which caused quite a sensation in a big town through which we marched, runs thus:
- Old soldiers never die, 
Never die, Never die, 
Old Soldiers never die. 
They simply fade away." 
After this verse, which is sung slowly to rather a pleasant tune everyone pauses and then utters a shrill squeal. There are times when we feel very tired, foot-weary and depressed, but a short spell and a decent meal, and we are all lively again and fit for another march. It is surprising how accustomed one gets to moving from one place to another and to making himself at home wherever he is billeted.  We ask nothing better than some straw and a roof to keep the rain off, and we are "in luck's way."  Another big factor in judging a billet is its proximity to a shop or canteen.  As soon as our billets are allotted we put off our packs and start off for a feed of eggs and "Café noir," or to buy some new bread and tinned fruit.  We are not always successful, and under these circumstances, we must content ourselves with the issue ration, which, by the way, is not exactly fattening about is missing Les. I should very much have liked to have seen him - just for a few minutes even and I should be satisfied. I hope you are hearing from him alright.  The weather has been all that one could wish for the last couple of weeks, - just a bit cold at night perhaps, but otherwise perfect. I have got 3 or 4 letters from Harry lately.  

Please tell him I cannot find time to write to him just now but give them (Harry & Essie) my kind regards.  I nearly forgot to tell you that your 2 parcels (24th & 30th May) came to hand alright, but have not got the one with the shirt yet.  I must thank you very much for them.  The socks were just in nice time, and are a good fit. I have not time to write to Ruby Perce or Gert. this time, but send each a kiss.  I did not get the Record Perce sent, but I got one from Pat O.K. You must excuse this scribble but you know "more haste, worse scrawl." Love from Your affectionate son, Jim. 
P.S.  I got Mrs. Spence's Birthday Card. Please give her my thanks and regards.

