
Author: James Joseph Makin
Location: At sea nearing Fremantle
Date: 14 February 1916
Nationality: Australian

Text:
 
Dearest Mother & Father,
In case you do not get my diary, 
which I am posting at Fremantle to avoid
censorship, I am sending you these few lines.
I am enjoying the trip pretty well so far
and the weather has been good on the whole.
I am sure of getting ashore at Fremantle
as I have been chosen for a Military 
Patrol to remain ashore after the others are
due back and pick up the stragglers.
A day on shore will break the monotony
of the boat which is sure to increase, as
we have 3 or 4 more weeks to go yet. I
have not seen a paper since last Monday
and feel a bit hungry for war news, but
I daresay we will get used to it. We 
expect to reach Fremantle this afternoon or
this evening and get off tomorrow. I suppose
you thought the note I sent from Adelaide
very rough but it was written at the last 
moment. I had been seasick and could 
not write until the morning we arrived there.
I cannot give you much more news
than is on the diary; indeed it is hard
to find any to write at all. After I leave Fremantle all my letters 
will be censored and news will be scanty.
Letters are not to contain the following :-
Names and places of dispatch,
Names of escort,
Number & description of troops,
Disposition of forces,
Route and Ports of call,
Criticism judged harmful,
Reference to larger units or commanders,
Ships met on route, &c e&c
I may not get an opportunity, therefore,
to send anymore instalments of the diary
for some time, unless by someone returning from
Egypt.
I got paid 35/-, that is, up till 7/2/16;
so you should get 24/- up till 15/2/16.
We expect to be vaccinated any day now.
I have not drunk a cup of tea since I
came on board; I cannot stand it at all.
I am sending a postcard of the "Warilda"
with this letter.
Give my kind regards to Harry and Essie.
They can read the diary and it will save me
writing a separate letter. Do not let any of
the pages go astray; it would be better to put a fastener through them. I hope you
made a satisfactory explanation to Auntie
Kate about not letting her know when the
transport was to go out. I have got to 
write to Sheehan's yet and explain.
I must now conclude this ragtime
letter as I am stuck for something to
say. I will promise you something
better next time.
Your affectionate son,
Jim 
