Author: James Joseph Makin
Location: Belgrave Hotel, Chester
Date: 20 September 1916

Nationality: Australian

Text:
Dearest Mother & Father,

You will see by this that I am on furlough and seeing a bit of England.  I have 14 days’ leave and am on my second day now.  I report back to Perham Downs Camp, Salisbury Plains, on Oct. 2nd. Norman Spense is at Larkhill about 6 miles from this camp.  I tried to see him last Saturday but could not find him.  I must sympathize with him in his sad loss.  Les told me of Mr Spense's death in his last letter.  I am writing him this morning. Les is still well.  His division has been shifted from the Somme front, and they are at present near Ypres in Flanders from what I can hear. I could have gone convalescent to Woodcote Park near Epsom, but preferred to have my leave while the weather was yet fine. Since my last letter I have had 2 more letters, - one from Ruby and the other from Harry - both dated 27/6/16, so you see it is a good long while ago.  

I  am longing for a letter from you, dear Mother. It is 4 months since I got your last news. I am afraid the parcels sent by Ruby and yourselves will never reach me.  It is a waste of good money and stuff.  Don't send me anything else, please.  The chance of getting it is not worth the trouble. I have been recommended for 3 months' light duty in England by the O.C. of Epsom Hospital, but it must be confirmed at the Camp when I return from furlough. The light duty would probably be clerical work at Hdqrs. in London, so it would be "treś bon" (ask Perce) The casualties of most of the lads in my platoon were in yesterday's paper. It is 8 weeks since they occurred, so you can see how things are.  I felt very miserable to think of many good fellows, who had shared hardship with me during two hard months, to be lying out there without even a decent grave in many cases. I have not had time to see much of Chester yet, but am about to set out now. on a trip around the old walls.  It was a Roman stronghold at one time.

I forget whether I told you that two of the chemists from our Melbourne office. are now working up here on munition work for the Government.  They are not merely skilled workers, but absolutely qualified explosive experts, so one can pardon them for not wanting to go to France.  Both tried to enlist however in Melbourne. I visited them at the factory - a tremendous place working 24 hours a day - and one of them got the afternoon off.  They work from 11 am. till after 8 at night - often midnight and Sunday is just like any other day to them. It was fine to talk of old times in Melbourne, and I can tell you we agreed that Mr Lewis, Mr Irwin & Co. and 423 Flinders Lane, would do us after the war (first boat) I'm afraid I cannot give you much more news this time, but will promise you a good letter next mail. I am going from here to  Liverpool tomorrow and perhaps to Manchester thence. I also intend to go up to  North Wales, where I have a ticket.  I broke my journey here. Well, dear parents, I must now conclude with the best love to Ruby, Gertie, Perce and Yourselves.
From your affectionate son
Jim
P.S I shall send some PICs of Chester as well