  Author: James Joseph Makin
Location:  Ashley Place London Date:  25 March 1918
Nationality: Australian                            		                    Text: 

My dearest Mother & Father, 
Since my last letter ha the much-advertised German offensive has begun, and I am glad for your sake that both Les and I are safe in England.  It should save you a good deal of worry. You have seen from the papers of the colossal scale of the battle and whatever our own losses may be, it is something to know that the Germans are paying dearly by using their massed attacks. It is now that we realize what the Russian debacle really means to us.
 I had a letter from Les yesterday.  He was to have come up to London with the football team from his camp, but strained his ankle on Thursday, and so could not make the trip.  We beat his team by 15 goals 9 to 9-8. The weather has been wonderfully fine and mild compared to last March. The Germans are fortunate in striking such a succession of fine days for their push. I have tried many times to be relieved of my job here to no avail, and my conscience is free.  It seems certain that I shall see the finish of the war in the Finance Section. The conditions of such a position are all one could wish for as regards comfort, but there is little or no chance of promotion now. Ability counts for very little. It is favoritism chiefly and then seniority of service. There are many here I can run rings around at figures or any other clerical work, who are holding good jobs as S.Sgts and W.O's and waiting on commissions.  Here the best crawler wins every time, and that is one thing I will not do. I met Alf. Bull last Sunday afternoon walking in Hyde Park.  He is well and is now on 14 days leave from France.  He has gone over to Ireland to visit Killarney.  He wishes to be remembered to you all and asks me "to strafe the dad" for not dropping him a line.  He is in the 8th Battalion. Post Office and has a pretty safe job.  He has not been wounded.  I have not had any word from Paddy Scanlon for a good while now.  It is a good while since the last Australian mail in.  There should be another shortly.
 There have not been many air raids on London lately.  They have been giving Paris a turn instead. Jack Draper, a pal of Billy Bruce, who went into camp with me at Albert Park, is returning shortly. I have told him to call on you.  I shall probably be sending some photos &c home by him. There is no more news at present so I will conclude with love to all.  Cheers! Your affectionate son, Jim. 