											
Author: James Joseph Makin
Location:  A.I.F Headquarters London Date:  26 May 1918 Nationality: Australian

Text: 

Dearest Mother, Your ever-welcome letters of 24th and 30th March just to hand. Somehow when I get your letters, dear mother, I always get a violent spasm of home sickness, and in a few moments my thoughts fly back to all my dear people so many thousands of miles overseas. I often want to write to you just as I feel when I get your letters after weeks of waiting, when I am almost too full of pleasant memories of home for expression in writing. Do you ever think my letters very impersonal in tone, - not like a son to a mother? It is because I disguise my feelings with writing commonplace news, and outline my sports and work in great, big London, so that perhaps you will think I am not worrying of you, and that I am making the best of things while I am lucky enough to be living in safety and comfort. I have often wanted to tell you how I appreciate your beautiful words of motherly love. They comfort me greatly and it is pleasing to reflect that one has been some comfort and little worry to the best mother in all the world.
You were asking if I still have the crucifix and other little badges and things I brought with me. I am proud to say that I have every one, and I treasure them very dearly, because I know it is your wish. I shall bring them all home to you some day, - let us hope it will be sooner than appearances indicate at present. I still go to church and live up to my religion. I try to live cleanly, and though we are confronted with many pitfalls in the way of temptation, I have confidence that I shall be always able to resist them. Last time I saw Les he showed me some medals he brought away with him; he would not lose them for anything. I had a letter from him yesterday from Warminster. He is well and cheerful, and says he is likely to be here for some time yet.
I never hear from Harry now. The letters passed from "seldom to never." I suppose it is my fault for not writing more often. I want you to keep this letter for yourself alone, dear mother, for I know what father is. He would sneer to himself, or openly perhaps, and so hurt your feelings. I shall write another for his benefit tomorrow. They will both go by the same mail. How does he behave these times?  Still as of old? Believe me, I am always thinking of you, and how I could have been some degree of comfort to you in your times of worry, but for this unfortunate war.  It hurt me much more than ever you could imagine in leaving home to come. I daresay you regarded me as thoughtless and impetuous, but I had thought of it continually for months before I finally decided I had to come. When I get back I know I shall appreciate home once more all the better, for the old saying is wonderfully true, "absence makes the heart grow fonder." I hope you are looking after yourself as far as possible and not overdoing that endless task of house keeping. I suppose Ruby is a grand help to you now. I absolutely cannot realize Ruby quite a woman and Perce and Gert. quite grown up.
When I think of you all, it is as I knew you when I left, - Gertie a bonny little girl, Perce in short pants and Ruby a young girl. I have to close now, dearest Mother, as it is getting very late. Keep on smiling through your tears, and pray that God will bring us both back home to you safe and sound of limb to the welcome which we know awaits us.
Fondest love from Your affectionate son, Jim