                                                                Author: James Joseph Makins
Location: Sutton Veny Wiltshire England   
Date: 11 December 1918
Nationality: Australian

Text:


My dearest Mother & Father,        Today i have received your letters of 30/9, 16/10 and 27/10, thanks to having them sent to Fred Juergens, and although  I am always awaiting them and look forward to them from mail to  mail, at present I almost dread to  open them for the fear of having some bad news.         I know too well what a fearful shock  you have received, and that it has come as a climax to several years of almost continual worry. It is too  much to expect a mother or father  not to grieve, but I sincerely hope you will bear up against this stroke  of adversity and say as I have heard many French Mothers mutter when several sons had fallen "mort an champ d'honneur" "C'est la Guerre, c'est la guerre". It is enough to know Les lives in heaven as surely there is such a place of God's creation.
               I am sorry to say I have not yet any immediate prospect of leaving for home.  You may rest assured I am leaving no stone  unturned by which I may achieve my greatest wish,  which is to  return and try to comfort you  in your trouble.         I do not wish you to forget  Les or the greatest of all acts  of love and self sacrifice in laying  down his life for his country, that we might live, but I pray that God will strengthen you to bear your burden of grief the better.       I often lay awake at night and wonder if in time we shall forget, forget those who lie asleep, who did not live to see that great day in our lives, which  we have all recently celebrated and hailed with joy, but which  through all those black, dark days seemed too wonderful for  realization.  I fear that Harry  already has forgotten, or else did  not, at any time, realize how nobly Les was "carrying on" never murmuring against  hardships and bitter disappointments. seen by others.        What a horrible thing it is to think  of such discord in a family of the same flesh and blood!  Consider a man, who  lavishes the money entrusted him by a brother who is risking his life that he the other might enjoy his life of security and  prosperity.  And then thanks he gives,  and the consideration he shows, to his mother when he achieves a position in which he can afford to go away, after being helped along when things were not too bright.         These are some of the things which must be explained.         They are granting us ten days leave at Xmas or New Year.  I shall try to  get over to Rouen if possible. It will probably be the only opportunity I shall get of seeing St. Severs Cemetary.         I wrote to Ruby, Gertie and yourselves a day or so ago, so there is not  much news left to tell you. Bill O'Brien leaves for Weymouth tomorrow and will soon be on his way home. Jack Barry,  Dick Maher and I did him "bon voyage" tonight.                   Much love to all                                       Your loving son,                                                                       Jim