Author: James Joseph Makin
Location: Somewhere in France
Date: 31 March 1916
Nationality: Australian

Text:
Dear Mother and Father,
Perhaps you will be surprised to find me here so soon, but here we are like so many tourists after having "done" Egypt in style.  We reached the French coast safely and travelled for three days by train to our present situation.  The first day was a perfect spring day and we passed through very fertile country.  The scenery was beautiful and it felt good to be alive and well.  The second day was very cold and we passed through a hail and snow storm in the mountainous country.  The third day was also cold and wintry and it was snowing slightly when we came to our journeys' 
end. We can do with all our warm clothing now.  I did not find out where Les is, but I think he is still in England.  I wrote today to C/o High Commissioner on the off chance.  I am looking forward to hearing from him shortly.
 
[*P.S. Tell Perce, Gertie and Ruby to write as often as they can.  I shall send them some P/C's of France shortly.*)

I am feeling well, in fact better than ever I was before.  I am glad to be near the scene of operations at last, although I don't suppose you will be.  Do not worry about me for I feel confident I shall be alright. 
 
I have not heard from you yet but hope for a letter shortly.  I did not think I would be lucky enough to be in France when I left home, nor little did I think that the French I learnt at school would be so handy as it has proved.  If I am here any length of time I should be able to improve my vocabulary and pronunciation a good deal.  I saw a good deal of Cairo during our stay at Zeitoun.  Did you get the photos I sent of the four of us on camels in front of the sphinx?  It did not turn out very plain as it was not a favorable day.  How is the recruiting in Melbourne now?  Have any more Middle Park boys enlisted?  I daresay there are a lot in camp now.  I have never had any cause to regret enlisting or transferring to the Infantry when I did.  I am more convinced now that I could never have stayed in the A.M.F.
 
I was speaking to some Australians who have returned from England, and they say that all enteric cases stay in England at least 6 months.  This, together with the fact that I could not find him in Egypt, leads me to believe that Les is still in England.  Let me know the last news you have of him in case my letter does not find him.  I did not find Norman Spence either.  Did you get the silk things I sent about three weeks ago? We have not been paid for some time and I am "broke" for the first time.  I suppose I spent too much on the silk.
 
We got our first sight of hostilities today.  A German Taube flew over near our camp at a great height.  It was white and looked like a great cockatoo.  As we were watching it disappear in the distance we saw a white puff of smoke in the sky near it.  In a short time there were about a dozen such puffs and the dull report of the explosions was just audible.  It is said tonight that a Taube was brought down.  The sight of aeroplanes over the camp is fairly common.  I am looking forward to my first view of a Zeppelin in full flight.  It must be a wonderful sight.
 
I am not permitted to give you any details of places or any military information which might prove valuable in enemy hands, so it is hard to write an interesting letter.  I am recording everything in my diary from day to day, this should be more interesting if it ever reaches home.  My address is now as follows:-
     No 3862, Private JJ Makin,
            9th Reinforcements, 21st Inf. Battalion, A.I.F.,
                       32nd I.B.D.,
                               C/o A.P.O. - S 17.,
                                       B.E.F.,
                                                France.
If you lose this address write to C/o Intermediate Base, Cairo, Egypt.
 
Love to all from 
Jim.