Author: James Joseph Makin
Location:  France  Date:  7 May 1916 Nationality: Australian

Text:

France, 7/5/1916.                                                                             
Dear Mother & Father,
There is another mail out tomorrow so
I am sending you a little more news.
There has been nothing startling during 
the past weeks- just training , route- 
marches, three meals each day, and 
room in a tent at night. I have not heard from Les since. I got a 
letter from Harry yesterday dated 20/3/16
but have nothing from home since 11/2/16.
There is a large mail in at present
so I should get some letters in a day or so.
I would have liked to be able to tell you
I had your letters. It would have
been easier to write this is I had 
something to answer, but I shall do 
my best under the circumstances.
Did the Ballarat people find you 
alright? I should have liked to have
seen them. It is three years last Easter
since I was up at Ballarat with them
is it not? Those few days such of cold
and wet have only been beaten by 
the weather we had here for a fortnight
or so.  It has been lovely spring weather here
lately, and the route marches have been
a pleasure to me. Each time we go
for a march the indications of the 
arrival of spring are more noticeable.
The trees are now in leaf and
everything is fresh and green. The 
crops have grown so that the hares are
harder to see as they steal away. This 
part of France beats Victoria (or the 
parts I have seen of it) for wild flowers.
They grow along the roadways and lanes
in profusion, The sky larks are here
just as they were at St Albans, only 
ever so many more. They are singing 
at all times- even at the peep of dawn,
which is not long after 3 o'clock these 
mornings. Some days have been quite
hot, and many of us are wearing "shorts".
 The English papers are full of
the doings of our "Billy" Hughes and
his fellow compatriot Lloyd George. They
had a great day at Conway in Wales 
yesterday, and made characteristic speeches. After reading their speeches I was able
to say " Them's my sentiments" Both of these
fiery little Welshmen advocate a more
vigorous campaign and a plea for 
putting out whole strength in the field.
I feel that the sooner this is done, the 
sooner the Hun will go under and the 
sooner we will get home. I shall 
not be sorry when we make a move
out of this camp to try our luck against
the "Germhuns."
 I see from Harry's letter that Jack
Scanlon got home alright and that his
arm is nearly better. Have any more
Middle Park boys become soldiers since
I left?
I am stuck for news so I shall
have to finish off this hopeless scrawl
with a promise to write a better one next
week. 
Your affectionate son,
Jim. 
