Zeitoun, Cairo,
Egypt,
 
Author: James Joseph Makin
Location:  Zeitoun Cairo Egypt  Date:  18 March 1916 Nationality: Australian

Text:
 
18/3/1916
 
Dearest Mother and Father,
On coming in to the Y.M.C.A. tonight I
heard that there is another mail for Australia
closing tomorrow afternoon, so I am taking
the chance of sending you another few lines.
I sent you several cards and my diary last
mail as well as fo two handkerchiefs for Ruby 
and Gertie, which I hope will reach you
alright. I also sent two to Essie and a card 
to Harry. I have not had any letters so far,
and I can assure you I am looking forward
to some news. I bought some silk things last
night in Heliopolis and posted them today in
Cairo. I registered them, so they ought to reach
you safely. The blue shawl, table centre, and 
cushion cover are for mother, and the white scarf 
for Ruby. The little handkerchief was put in
when I was trying to get him to take off some
discount. The things are brand new and you need
not be afraid of any germs on them.  The shawl is
a good one and cost £1, the scarf 11/-, table
centre 8/-, and the cushion cover 6/-. I am sure
I have got good value, - as good as one can get in
the shops at any rate. The stuff you buy in the
streets may be cheaper but one knows nothing of its
history. There is also more risk of being taken in. I have not had much opportunity of seeing the
sights of Egypt since I last wrote. We always 
seem to be on some duty or other. This afternoon 
(Saturday) was the first chance I have had to go any
where this week, and as we do not know how soon 
we may be leaving here, I went out to the Pyramids
to see what everyone who has been in Egypt is
expected to see. I was unfortunate in striking
a very disagreeable afternoon. It was very windy
and the dust was lifting off the desert in clouds.
It rained slightly too whilst we were about to get 
our photos taken alongside the Sphinx. I am 
taken with three others, - two brothers named 
Matthews from Murchison and a friend of theirs.
I hope they turn out alright. If they do, I shall
send them along next mail. As I flew along 
in the electric tram towards the Pyramids I
could not help thinking of Les and how often he
must have made this trip during his four months
at Mena. The irrigation along the Nile is
wonderful. There are green crops as far as the eye
can see on each side of the Mena Road.
At the Terminus the Pyramid of Cheops looks a 
wonderful size. It is not merely built on level
desert but on a high eminence compared with
the very flat irrigation country between Mena and 
Cairo. From the high country around the Pyramids
you can get a fine view of Mena Camp, where 
Les put in some strenuous weeks in training for
Gallipoli and its rigors. I did not attempt to climb the Pyramid
today. The sand was blinding and the wind 
strong. I contented myself with examining
the Sphinx and the neighbouring underground
temples. It would take too long to describe 
them or tell their history just now. I mean
to make another visit, if possible, and climb the
Pyramid. From the summit you can get a 
fine view of the irrigated lands on a fine
day. I had my first ride on a camel
this afternoon,-from the Sphinx to the tram at
Mena.
I am enjoying camp life at Zeitoun.
Although we get very little spare time and plenty 
of guard duty, we are nevertheless contented.
We do not know how soon we may leave Zeitoun
for another camp or to the Canal. We have
had a few very warm days and many cold 
nights. I have got a card acknowledging my
enquiry for Les but no particulars yet of his
location. I met a lad who was with him at
Gallipoli. He tells me that it is 100 to 1 he will 
not come back to Egypt on account of its hot summer.
I am glad for him but sorry not to see him. 
I must stop now as it is getting near
closing time.
With best love to all
Your loving son
Jim
