Author: James Joseph Makin
Location: Troopship At Sea
Date:  29 February 1916
Nationality: Australian
 
Text:
Dearest Mother & Father,
 
As you see we have not yet reached our
destination but we  are on our way. We
must send our letters in to the censor by 
tomorrow, so I have left writing until the
last day. The weather has been fine
and hot since we left W.A. and the sea
calm for the most part. Each day now
is alike and the boat is becoming 
monotonous. We shall all be overjoyed
when we come to disembark.  I was
vaccinated a few days week ago and have
had no trouble so far. Some of the lads
have sore arms and minor sickness
through the vaccination, but I felt no
ill effects at all. We are having an
easy time, very little drill and plenty
of time to oneself. Nearly everyone is
wearing only a singlet and "shorts".
My legs are fairly brown already. The
sun is overhead at midday and very
hot too. One can always find a 
cool spot where there is a breeze.
 
I am glad I am not in the A.M.C.
as they are kept fairly busy on board
while we have all our time to ourselves. I was unlucky enough to lose my fountain
pen overboard one night. I had it clipped
into my pocket but it was levered out by
the rail as I leant on it watching the
sea. I shall get another when I reach 
Egypt as they are very handy. I am
still writing up my diary but news is
very scarce, each day being practically
the same. One longs for a swim on a hot
day but one must be content with a sea-
water shower. The nights seem very long
as we travel with lights out, and the
only pastime is to sing all the songs
you can think of till it is time to
turn in. It is too hot to sleep in
hammocks so we take our blankets on
deck. We had a concert on Saturday
afternoon given by the ship's crew.
It was very successful, and afternoon
concerts are to be held in future
as frequent as possible.
 
The sunsets are very beautiful and
we always spend the time between
tea and dusk in watching the water
and sky.
 
I am always wondering what the
latest war news is and how Les is getting on and whether he is still in England.
I am looking forward to some letters
and papers. Are you getting my pay 1
from the Barracks alright? I hope you
 
I am feeling the benefit of the trip,
I think, now that it is nice and
calm, but I did not think I would
make much of a success as a sailor after
striking a rough trip to Adelaide.
Most of us miss a bit of fruit; we had
some good feeds of it in Perth though.
 
It is surprising how light hearted
everyone is. One would think they were
going on a big picnic. Anyway no one
thinks much about the war. The main
topics are "Where do you think we'll go?"
or "How long will we be in Egypt?" "How
much money will I have when I land"?
&c. Many who brought a few pounds
with them and only 1/- per day are sorry
now that they have lost their "roll"
gambling. We saw the "Karoola" at
Fremantle, inward bound with 400 returned
soldiers on board. I suppose I have
passed Jack Scanlon on the water
as he left England about the middle of January. Everyone at my table is writing letters
this afternoon. I have got to write
a few more this afternoon before tea
as I go on guard in the morning
and will not have another chance.
I should be able to find more
news for my next letter. There is
certainly not much  to write about just
now. Am sending a few lines to
Harry and Essie this time.
 
Remember me to Mrs. Spence; if I
had Norman's address I could look
him up if I got near him in Egypt,
also Gordon Stirling.
 
Will now conclude with love to all.
 
Your affectionate son,
Jim