Author: James Joseph Makin
Location: France   
Date: 4 April 1916
Nationality: Australian

Text:

Dearest Mother & Father,
Just to let you know I am still well and that everything is going on alright.  We are at present undergoing a further and more elaborate course of training under English instructors who have been through the mill.  It is rather strenuous after a comparatively easy two months, but we all feel that we cannot get too much of it.  We march out about three miles each morning and remain out till about 2-30 pm, when our day's work is finished.  The weather has been beautifully fine since the first day when it was very cold.  Last Sunday was the hardest day's work ever I have done.  We were being put through an efficiency test.  We came through alright but felt very tired on our return to camp.  We are issued with tobacco, cigarettes and chocolate weekly.  It is just as well because there are few with any money left.
Today is Les's birthday and the anniversary of the departure of the First Division from Egypt to Lemnos.  I have not heard from Les since I left home.  I wrote to him from here several days ago and am eagerly awaiting an answer, also my first letter from home.  We are practically confined to camp here.  There are two good halls, the Y.M.C.A. and the Catholic Club.  There is a heterogeneous collection of soldiers at each place each night.  Here one finds men from all the various English, Irish, and Scotch Regiments.  Many of them have been in the firing line and are here for a rest.
 
There is a small French town hard by.  The Church bell first thing in the morning (5-30) reminds one that we are in Lent and of his own bell at home.  Our time is now 10 hours behind that of Melbourne.  I often reckon up what time it is there.
 
I had my first game of football last night.  There is only one Australian ball, but dozens of soccer balls.  I wish it was vice versa.
I don't suppose there will be any League games this year.  There are a few League players in our camp.  We had Kirkwood of Essendon and McDonald of Richmond playing last night.  They were shining stars among the crush.  Is Perce just as keen on the game?  Tell Ruby that she can make me a thick Balaclava and some thick socks.  I am afraid I suffer with "cold feet".
 
I must close now as the mail is closing shortly.  Remember me to Auntie Kate and the girls, and Aunt Eliza.  I am writing to Harry and Essie also this time.  I shall take this opportunity of wishing another many happy returns of the 25th in case my other letter and card went astray.
Love from
Your affectionate son.
Jim

P.S.  In case my previous letter went astray my address now is:-
 
No. Name
9th Rfts, 21st Inf. Batt. A.I.F.
32nd I.B.D.,
C/o. A.P.O. - S 17,
B.E.F.
France