Author: James Joseph Makins
Location: France
Date: 29 April 1916
Nationality: Australian

Text:

Dear Mother,
Just a few more lines to let you know
that I am well and in good spirits. There
has not been a mail out since last Tuesday
week, so I have not written for about a
fortnight. I am still in the same training
camp and there is no prospect of moving for
a while. I received your letter addressed
to the "Warilda" (dated 11/2/16) on Good  Friday, but you see I have practically no
news since I left. I should be anxious
but for the fact that Les has told me that
everything was alright when last he heard.
Evidently he hears fairly regularly from you.
 I got a letter from him just a while
ago (dated 23/4/16), the longest I have seen  him write at one time. I drew his story (or
a bit of it) from him by writing a letter
full of questions, some of which he answered.
How modest he is, but what a brave chap!
You must be proud of him, but if you
heard some of his plain straight talk to
me you would be doubly so. He is every
inch a man, and if ever he had
any faults, which after all are only 
human, he has purged himself hundred-
fold on Gallipoli's deadly slopes. If ever I prove myself half the man he
is I shall be satisfied. I am not speaking
so much of him military service, (which has been
 finer than we have ever imagined), but of his
manly qualities:- modesty, in the extreme,
his patience in his many trials, (for did
he ever complain throughout his campaign?)
his steadfast devotion to duty, and 
consideration for our feelings at home during
his months of peril. Add to these his
recognition of the qualities of others. He is
never tired of speaking of the good points
of others and giving praise where it is due.
 He wrote to me the other day telling me
that if ever I wanted anything at all, big
 or small, expensive or cheap, no matter what
it was, he would send it. A friend of 
his, Captain Gibson, a doctor in the R.A.M.C.
also wrote me a very nice, cheering letter.
He was even more emphatic than Les in
asking me just to name any want I have.
 Of course I am wanting nothing at present,
only that my ordinary good luck and good health
will continue, and that plenty of letters will
shortly "come to light". Last Tuesday was Anzac Day, and believe
me, dearest mother, you all have never been
nearer to me than on that day. What a
coincidence that it should have fallen on 
your birthday! What kind of an Easter
have you spent? Very quiet, I should
imagine, and I can understand that your  thoughts were often with us, - so far and yet
so near. I can imagine Les. on Anzac
Day thinking of you in among his
numerous thoughts connected with the glorious
landing. It was a quiet Easter for me,
but very happy. Good Friday found us
drilling as usual all day. The first Aust-
mail was delivered in the evening, and
although most of the letters were 9 or 10
weeks old they cheered us up somewhat.
 It rained, all day on the Saturday and
we spent it within our tents. On Easter
Sunday I went to Communion - along with
Australians, "Scotties" and "Tommies" of most
the English and Irish regiments in camp
here. It was a most edifying sight to
see the hall crowded out with soldiers,
and all bent on the same mission, - making peace
with God. 
I went to Benediction and Rosary in the
evening. I was surprised at the way
Benediction was sung by the soldiers (in
Latin) and also the hymns to the
accompaniment of the Club piano.
 Is it not deplorable that trouble has
broken out in Ireland? It is astounding, in-
asmuch as there are thousands of fine men
in the Irish regiments here, who are
moved by the highest sense of patriotism.
Who can deny that these Irish regiments
are not among the best of the British
fighting units and are fighting to uphold
British integrity and traditions? I have
mixed with them for a month and I
know their spirit. And yet they are having
their honor and name filched away by
a ruffian horde, blinded by long-past
wrongs and kindled by German gold and
influence. Let us hope that the trouble
will be stamped out this time for good
and all, as assuredly it will be, but at the
expense of much needed lives at a critical
moment. This is another instance illustrating
the sameness of the "Keep-your-eye-on-Germany" Policy. Did you get a photo of Les and Dr Gibson?
It is a fine photo of Les as we knew him
at home, but he has lost some of the "condition"
he had in other photos. I think there is a
fine expression in his eyes. Perhaps I
 am more inclined to eulogise him on account
of hearing of his exploits so recently, but
nevertheless I cannot help feeling
proud of him.
 I am writing to Papa this time - a
separate letter- because there are things 
which I feel I can say to you each
separately better than in one letter, and
then, of course, you can read both
just the same.
 I shall also try to find time to write
to Ruby and dear little "Nickie" and
Perce this time. Remember me to
both Aunties and anyone interested
in me,- also to Harry and Essie in case
their letter miscarries. (You see I have
already lost faith in the Post Offices here).
 I shall write again shortly, and give
you some more news. It should be easier
to write when I get some of your letters.
Your affectionate son,
Jim.
