Author: James Joseph Makin
Regiment: 9th / 21st Battalion
Location: Zietoun Cairo Egypt
Date: 10 March 1916
Nationality: Australian

Text:
 
Dearest Mother and Father,
I arrived safely in Suez two days ago and
came by train to Zeitoun, a camp several miles
from Cairo, last night. As it was midnight
when we arrived here I am unable to say
what Cairo is like yet, but before long I hope
I shall be able to tell you all about this ancient
city. My first impressions of Egypt are more
favorable than I hoped, and so far everything it has
far exceeded my expectations.
 
We had a splendid trip over, the water being
smooth right from W.A. and the weather
perfect. We are very glad to hear news
of the war again. Three or four weeks news
are a blank to us but we are just about
putting two and two together now and forming
an idea of the situation. There is great
excitement about the big offensive in France
and the reported departure of the German
fleet westward. Let us hope it will
soon meet its Trafalgar. The Germans
must be making their last big effort;
perhaps the "situation is desperate". The
news from the Balkans and Persia is
better than when we heard last, and the death of Enver Pasha from the assassin's
hand shows that things are only "middling"
in Turkey. We have no idea of the losses 
of either Germans or Allies in the recent
attack on Verdun, but the German loses
are said to be very high.
 
It is too soon to form an opinion
of the camp just yet but the reports of
Australians here say that it is a "good
home". No one has any idea how long 
we shall be here but it should not
be very long I think.
 
We disembarked at Port Suez at 9.30
am. yesterday and waited for a train
till 4 pm. We ran straight through
Suez, and one could only get a hasty
impression of this town. There are some
fairly large buildings, - white in color
and which appear to be built of a kind of
cement over a wooden framework.
There are one or two straight streets; the rest
are narrow irregular alleyways in which
natives in their gay-colored flowing
garments move aimlessly along. Close
to the line railway one got a glimpse of what
looked like coffee or drinking houses;
chairs and tables are set both inside and out, and natives clad in many colored
gowns and red fezes sit smoking and
drinking. There was not much to 
see once out of the town and the
train sped merrily on through semi-
desert country. Here and there one
could see that Britain is not taking
any risks with the Canal. There were
many camps - "Tommies," Indians, and
Australians, and endless camels with
their native drivers. Even as we dashed
through, the wonderful spirit of the
Allies was evident. Here one sees a 
team of Tommies trying their skill
at soccer with an equally keen team of 
Indians,  unmindful of the heavy
going of the desert sand or of the dust
and grit stirred up as they 'mixed it'
with a will.
 
As we stopped at each siding
money-thirsty natives boarded the train
and tried to show their skill at bargaining
in their sales of "ollangies" or "orrringies"
with the too - suspecting Australians.
The oranges were a boon after the dry
biscuits and cheese with which we
had been issued for the day's rations. The railway carriages (3rd class) are very
crude compared with Victoria's. The only
thing in them is a hard seat and a 
light. Their are doors at each end and
a division down the centre like a Tail car.
There was not much room when we settled
down with full marching order, sea-kits
and rifles. We were about 7 hours in the
train and when we arrived in Cairo
we were mighty glad to get out and have
a stretch. We walked about a mile to
the camp, were housed in 2 huts (100 in
each), got a couple of blankets and
turned in about 1 am. We were up
again at 6 am but anticipated an
easy day.
 
There is a mail closes today, so 
I have taken the first opportunity
to send you these few lines.
 
I have not time for any more so 
I shall close with love to all
      
From Your affectionate son,
Jim
 
P.S Tell Harry I have not time to
write this mail but will write next
week for certain. Am sending a
cable this afternoon.