                                                                Author: James Joseph Makin
Location: A I F Headquarters London Date: 15 January 1918.
Nationality: Australian

Text:
 My dear Mother & Father, 
Yours of 23/11 to hand, also one from Perce and a newspaper cutting of Mr. Hughes speech on the Referendum. This is the quickest mail we have had for months and probably came via Panama. It was the first mail from West Australia since about the middle of September, so you can tell it was looked forward to by all.  I had a letter last night from Les from Warminster.  He has received his Xmas parcel you will be glad to hear, and is much more cheerful in tone than he has been of late.  He came up to London for the weekend whilst I was away at Catford with Dr Gibson, but he says he will be up again on leave shortly when I hope to see him. Tom McGrath came in to see me yesterday.  He is almost as tall as I am and I should hardly have known him but for Paddy telling me he was in England. Had a letter a couple of days ago from Charlie Trewartha.  He is a sgt. with a M. Medal and is at present at an Officers' School at Cambridge.  
He says his brother and cousin are getting on well, and wishes to be remembered at Middle Park. I have not heard from Bill Robbie for a good while now and have lost trace of his movements. I have not played football the last two Saturdays but expect to be playing in a Charity Match on the 26th to be witnessed by the King and Queen.  I played in that match, the result of which you saw in the Melbourne papers. I have been going to a few dances lately and it is a good thing to drive away the blues. Perce's remarks about dancing "tickled me to death".  (Do you rag it kid?" - to wit). We have had phenomenally cold weather, the thermometer being below zero for the first twelve days of the Year.  All the ponds are frozen and there is a good deal of skating in consequence.  I am dressed warmly and am more used to the frigid conditions than last winter.  I shall have to become acclimatized again when I get back home. I met my old section Commander, Cpl. Clancy, one night last week.  He has only had nine bullets through various parts of him and is now unfit.  We went to a theatre and talked of old times.  I learned that almost all of my platoon were killed or missing, just a few lucky ones like myself remaining. 
Well, dear people, news is scarce these times. I shall write again in a few days.  Love to all from your affectionate son, Jim