                                                           				 Author: James Joseph Makin
Location: A I F Headquarters, London. Date:  14 March 1918 Nationality: Australian


Text:

My dear Mother & Father, 
Since I last wrote to you Les has been up on weekend leave to London. I spent a few hours with him on Monday. He is looking and feeling much better than when I saw him last.  We are getting four days leave at Easter, and our football team is going to Bournemouth. Les hopes to be able to go down with me if he can fix up the leave. We went down to Brightlingsea (on the east coast between Southend and Harwich) last Saturday and beat the Australian Engineers 17-16 to 2-5.  I had another photo taken there, so you will be getting a lot of football photos shortly. There is another Australian mail in dated 23rd Jan. from Melbourne.  I have had none from you by that mail as yet. 
Neither Les or I can get over the size Ruby and Perce have grown during the last couple of years. The weather is finer and warmer, and consequently much more appreciated by Australians than months of winter. The team from the O.T.C. at Cambridge, which we played on A.N.A Day, is coming down next Saturday.  We hope to beat them again.  We have just finished a big balance period.  We have been doing a lot of night work, and am feeling a bit fagged. It is good to look forward to a good game of "dinkum" Australian football on Saturday afternoons. Have not had any letters from Paddy Scanlon or Bilby Robertson lately. Les thinks that the talk of a big German offensive is a big bluff. The turn of events during the last 6 months owing to the collapse of Russia does not tend to make one very optimistic about the duration of the war.  I should not care to have to guess when it will end to the nearest 12 months. The submarines are still taking a huge toll on our shipping each week, and shipbuilding is being speeded up both here and in America.  As usual, we realize such vital facts always too late. What kind of a summer have you had this year?  It seems ages since I felt the heat of the sun at all. I hope you are all keeping fit and well at Harold Street. Much love to all from Your affect. son,  Jim. 