
                                                                   				  			  
Author: James Joseph Makin
Location: A I F Headquarters London Date:  15 April 1918
Nationality: Australian  Text: 
My dear Mother & Father, 
Your letters of 31/1, 5/2, and 18/2 all to hand by the same mail this morning.  I was wondering when I was going to get your next letters. As you will see they are much delayed these times. I am pleased to say they find me well and still in London. When I read them and noticed the anxious tone in them as to whether I should be sent back to France or not, I am glad for your dear sakes I am safe in England. But there are times I assure you when I feel as I did during those few months before I enlisted.  I had a letter from Les a day or so ago in answer to one I sent him to wish him many happy returns. He is feeling well, and up to now has no word of going to France. He never forgets to remind me to hang on here in London as long as I can. 
On Saturday we played a match against the Australian munition workers at Chiswick.  They had a good side, including Wally Johnson and Toohey of Fitzroy, but we won comfortably by 9-11 to 4-1.  Did I tell you of the Sports we held at Bournemouth at Easter?  The opposing football team could not get leave so we arranged a series of sports meetings.  I won a 100 yards footrace and a 66 yds swimming race, both from scratch and was declared champion.  You did not know I could run, did you? 
 The war is now in the most critical stage since 1914.  We appear to be holding the Germans during the last few days, and the situation is more hopeful that in the first stages of the offensive.  Germany is making a final bid for victory before America can get her full strength into the field.  If we can hold them until then, victory is assured and an early victory too I think.  But for America coming to our aid, the Russian collapse would have been fatal to us and our cause. There has been terrific fighting during the last two days for the village of Neuve Èglise.  The Germans took it, but we have recaptured it by a counterattack and are holding it at present.  I sent you about a dozen Post Cards of Neuve Èglise in 1916.  Did you remember you had views of the place when you read the reports during the last few days? When we left Amentieres (Rue Marle and  Bois Grenier) we marched through Steenwerck to La Crêche, only one-quarter miles from Neuve Èglise.  We were there for about 4 days before starting our march to entrain for the Somme.  During those four days Les was with the Entrenching Battalion at Neuve Èglise, but of course I did not know at the time.  It was then  nearly 2 years since I had seen him, so you can imagine how I felt about it when I heard he was there near me.  He sent a letter by hand into my little bit of trench at Pozières by a Lieutenant who was joining my battalion. 
 I was brought away a few days later and I did not see him then until he came to England just 8 months later. These places, all now in German hands I once more, have therefore a very live interest  to me. I was only reading my pocket diary of those days the other night.  I  have sent it home, together with a few little souvenirs with Jack Draper, who is due to sail for Australia any day  now.  Keep the little diary for me please and don't shew it to anyone except our family as it is by no means meant for anything but a reminder of my adventures in France.  Whilst I was at La Crèche I got to know a French family of the name Saëlen very well.  They used to tell me of the days when the Germans first overran that district, until they were driven back a few miles into positions they then  occupied.  Little did they think the same thing was to happen after another two years!  Can you imagine the feelings of these poor French people in their little ravished homesteads?  How thankful you should all be that you are so far removed from all the horrors of war! I am wondering if they had time to flee, or if they stayed behind as in 1914. The snap taken at the Post Office picnic is very good.  Ruby and Perce are quite distinct.  I have never seen such a likeness as between Les and  Perce.  It is very evident in a photo. When Les met me, almost the first thing he said was, "How like Harry you are, especially when you talk." I am enclosing a PIC taken at Brightingsea of our football team.  We played a match down there against the Australian Engineers.  I come out fairly clearly and I think you will pick me out.  I have sent home my old Rugby Guernsey with a red kangaroo on it as a souvenir. Jack Draper is taking it. It should now be getting a bit like Spring but it is still cold and wintry.  I shall not be sorry when the fine weather sets in. I hope father's leg got O.K. again and Gertie quite well.  You say Gertie was starting her second year at the Mid. Park High School.  I did not even know she was there last year. I am glad Perce is getting along alright at work.  You say Perce is always swimming and could beat me by now.  Perhaps so, but he would be busy I think.  I hope we shall swim together in the old baths again one day anyhow.  I shall be content to be beaten, believe me.  Well, I must close now with fondest love to all, including Harry, Essie and dear little Lenore. 
Your affectionate son, Jim.


AUSTRALIAN IMPERIAL FORCE. A.I.F. & WAR CHEST CLUB.              97, HORSEFERRY ROAD, Citizens "War Chest" Fund, Sydney, N.S.W.   LONDON S.W.1. BEHIND ARMY AND NAVY STORES                            AND OPPOSITE A.I.F. HEADQUARTERS