Author: James Joseph Makin
Location:  France  Date:  27 May 1916 Nationality: Australian

Text:

P.S. There has not been a mail out
for several weeks, hence the delay!
France, 27/5/16.
Dearest Mother & Father,
Your letter of 29/3/16 to hand. Little
did you think when you were writing
that letter that I was just making myself 
at home in "Sunny France". I quite
imagine you thinking of me browning
under the fierce Egyptian sun. It has
been very hot in Cairo lately, so I see
by London papers.
Well, dear parents, two long months
have passed away, and I am still
"no forrader" as regards taking part in
any of the "box on", which still continues,
however, with renewed intensity. At present
the gallant French "poilus" are still
beating off the relentless attacks of
the Huns, who continue to press on
as if the capture of Verdun was to 
them all in all. Of course, we know
what a prize it is; but is it such
that the Germans can h afford to have
regiment after regiment of their picked
soldiers shattered, and all in vain? The point is this :- The Germans realize
what a mighty offensive will shortly be
launched against their hard-pressed lines,
and they are making a frenzied,
desperate effort to achieve a smashing
victory, so as to divert some of its strength.
But, even should Verdun fall, - which
is no more likely than it was two
months ago, - it would be a barren
victory, inasmuch as the slaughter
of their best regiments has been
colossal, and such that the Hun
"morale" must be permanently shattered.
Let us not forget therefore what a
debt we owe to these devoted Frenchmen,
who are being subjected to such
frightful hardship and are bearing
the brunt of all the Hun "frightfulness",
before the fortress of Verdun! Their
steadfast courage and tenacity should
never be forgotten, and to us here
their success or defeat means everything.
 I shall not say anything of the Australians
for you probably know more about them than I do. I daresay you get a letter from
Les every mail telling you of his move-
ments. He is now at Weymouth, and
again "fit for service". There is a possibility
of him getting a position as instructor
here in France, for training camps are
numerous, and there will be plenty of
material to instruct. He must now be
an efficient instructor. I hope I shall
meet him sometime, but the chances
at present are not promising; but of
course, one never knows, does one?
I was thinking of Muriel and the
old violin the other day, and what did
I do but write to her - You know, plenty
of one does &c, just to make her
laugh a bit. I hope I succeeded.
I am sending some P/C's to Gert.
and Perce this mail as well.
I must now close with best
love and wishes.
Your affectionate son,
Jim.
1 DR9