
Author: James Joseph Makins
Location: War Hospital Epsom Surrey England    
Date: 18 August 1916
Nationality: Australian

Text: 

Dearest Mother & Father,
I thought I would take a walk down to the G.P.O. (Epsom) with the Post Cards I had written, as it was such a glorious afternoon. I soon found this place, - a sort of Y.M.C.A, tea-rooms, etc., with a nice little writing room in it. Then I thought I might as well drop you a line; this is the history of the circumstances connected with the writing of this letter. (By the way, these are not my fingerprints, either) Epsom, where the English Derby is run, is at present full of soldiers of every description, - English Tommies, Australians, Canadians, New Zealanders, and a few from South Africa and Fiji.  Some are in camp training to shortly leave for France, but most of them have already been there, and have been either wounded or invalided homesick. There are several camps within half an hour's walk of the town containing about 14,000 soldiers.  The largest is a Convalescent Camp for Canadians and Australians situated at Woodcote.  I expect to go there if I cannot manage to get to Eastbourne (somewhere on the coast).  It would be fine to get to the sea just now, as the weather is hot and sultry. Some friends of Les's - the Misses Fairfax - came to the hospital last Saturday.  I think you told me you had one of those PICs - a group including Les, Capt. Gibson, and the Misses Fairfax.  They sent me one yesterday.  Les looks well in it, don't you think so?

The F's are very nice people. You know the sort, who speak with great precision and care. I am afraid I should feel horribly out of place if I accept their invitation to visit them in London, - which I must do, I suppose. Capt. Gibson wrote a very nice letter asking if he could do anything for me, and inviting me to stay a few days with him - very embarrassing for a poor "baksheesh'" Private. I hope he does not insist. Well, dear People, this is all the paper I have, so I  must close with the best love to all till next mail.

Your affectionate son,
Jim

