Author: James Joseph Makins
Location: France
Date: 17 April 1916
Nationality: Australian 
 
Text:
Dear Mother & Father,
 As there is no mail for a fortnight after tomorrow
I am taking the opportunity to send you a few lines.
There is nothing exceptional to tell you since my
last letter. We are still in the training camp doing
plenty of work and waiting for something to turn up.
The weather has been very cold for about a week, a
cold wind blowing off the sea the whole time and
making training very disagreeable. It looks as if it will
be a cold Easter week as it usually is in Melbourne.
 We are still awaiting our first mail from Australia.
The letters are probably held up in Cairo at the Base
Depot. I had a letter from Les from his camp
at Kent in answer to the one I wrote him c/o
High Commissioner. It was only a note and saying
that he would write a long letter later on. He said he
was hearing regularly from you so I wrote him
to send me some news of home. My letters can
reach him in a couple of days from here. He said
that it was doubtful if he would be able to join 
his battalion in France. I don't suppose you will
be sorry if he does not. I saw in the "Daily Mail"
yesterday that the Government in Australia is
determined to fulfil the promise to send 300,000 men
to the front, using compulsion if necessary. If this
is so there should not be many men left about
Melbourne who are fit to do their bit. Are the 
papers just as full as ever of "The Call to Arms" &c.? The German attacks on Verdun have been
fruitless so far and the French lines are still
as strong as ever. There should be something
doing when summer sets in and the "Spring
Campaign" starts in earnest. There is evidently
a good number of Australians left at the Canal.  They captured a Turkish camp recently somewhere
in the neighbourhood of the Canal. I heard
that there are also some in Mesopotamia. I
think we are the most fortunate of the lot, - so
far at any rate. Is Ruby still at home? I
should not be surprised if she is tired of being
at home by this and has gone back to Buckley's.
 I did not see anything of Jim Duggan in
Egypt. I would write and tell Eileen but I
forget her address. How is Alick getting on? I
suppose he is somewhere here in France if he
is with his battalion. I don't suppose Ern.
has made another mistake and enlisted again.
Is he married yet?
 Les said he sent me a photo to 
Egypt, but it has not come to hand yet. I
suppose you got one alright. When you are
writing don't forget to send me a paper or so,-
The Bulletin would be very acceptable (although
we have plenty of "bully-tins" as a matter of fact).
 I hope mother has quite recovered from the
sickness she had before I came away and that all
are in the best of health. Love from Jim. 