										                                							
Author: James Joseph Makin
Location:  Ashley Place London  Date:  24 April 1918 Nationality: Australian

Text:

My dearest Mother,

Your letter of 24 February just to hand today.  I am glad to hear you are all keeping well.  News is  scarce except for the war, about which one can always write pages. I had a letter from Les during the week. He is still down at Warminster and has no marching orders up to now. Another Anzac Day tomorrow!  How the time flies round.  We are having a Church Parade in the morning, and a bit of a concert in the evening, - otherwise work as usual.  I daresay Les will take part in a few celebrations in camp. There is a football match at Oxford next Saturday against the cadets in the officers' School.  It should be a good wind up to the season.  We have had a very successful season, - about a dozen wins and two loses on very bad days when it was anybody's game. I like my new job in the Allotments Section. There is more work, but interesting, and the time passes quickly. Tonight's paper contains just enough news to make one impatient to see the morrow's paper.  The Germans have renewed their attacks in the hope of capturing Amiens.  I hope they get knocked back hard and often. The Naval forces made a very successful attack on Zeebrugge yesterday. This is the best news we have had on sea for many months past.  The Australians did very well during the recent heavy attacks in France, but did not get much mention in the papers; until Haig's despatch  came out yesterday people did not know they were even in the vicinity.  They are now mentioned amongst "the divisions who save the day."There have been no more men sent from Headquarters since the first week of the scare, and things appear to be going much as usual now.
You need have no fear of me going back to France.  I am here as long as the war rolls on and a few months thereafter I am afraid. 
Well, I must close now with love to all at home from your affectionate son, Jim