
Author: James Joseph Makins
Location: Somewhere in France
Date: 25 June 1916
Nationality: Australian


Text:

Dearest Mother & Father,  Your letters of 18/4/16 and 2/5/16 to hand, the former about 8 days ago and the latter just a while ago.  I told you in my last letter that I was in A Company, 21st Battalion, but in case  it went astray I am mentioning it again. I am back in billets again behind the lines after 12 days in the trenches, and "believe me", it is fine to be here again for a spell.
You know we went into the trenches on  Whitsunday night, the 11th, and in that short  time since, your little Jim has come to feel like a veteran; at any rate, a tired man.
But nevertheless we are still known as the "new men", my mate and I, and we must pocket our indignation when we are regarded as mere raw recruits by those who were lucky 
enough to be on Gallipoli (although many did not see a Turk). Still we are by no means downhearted, because, both being big and strong, we can soon "prove our salt", and if necessary demonstrate that all reinforcements are not "mugs" (despite our looks). We were rather unfortunate in striking four or five days bad weather. You know what  trenches are after plenty of rain,- mud,  slush, slime,- oozy and juicy.  Then again, length has its disadvantages at times; for instance, when one has to make his way into a dugout through a hole less than 2ft x 3ft, with several inches of sticky mud on the doorstep, and without crawling all over your mate, if he happens to be in first. Also, when he has to keep his head below a parapet made for a man "5ft nothing" for a 2 hr. stretch. But I would not lose and inch of my 6 feet, because the longer one is in the army the more proud he becomes of being the possessor of height and physique.  I wonder if you ever think of me as the long, frail boy I used to be. If
you do, get it right out of your head, because the French air and outdoor life has made me quite rugged, and the stern training has hardened me so that I feel quite equal to the rigors of a soldier's life. And more than this, I am quite satisfied that I should  never have been anything of a man unless I tasted hardship and mingled with men. This I have done, and I  think that, when I come back, you will see that you did not make a mistake in letting me come, as you nobly did. Were I in Melbourne today in the same old groove I am afraid I should "pine away and die" at the thought of being unable to be in the  middle of this glorious, uncertain, yet best of lives.  Do you ever think of "poor old Jim" suffering with sore feet, fatigue, hunger,
thirst, discomfort, fright, fear &c &c &c? As I said before,- "get it right out of your head", for he is happy if he is, and "when the toil of a long day is over" he rests just as comfortably on a hard floor and enjoys it as much as you in your soft beds, and his thoughts of "home and beauty" are not the troubled, anxious thoughts of a mother for her lucky sons. I often think of you worrying for our safety and welfare, and know too well that yours is the hardest burden, - the watching, praying, waiting. But should anything happen to me, consol yourself with the thought that I could not wish myself anything better, and would not wish myself anywhere but where I am at present.  It is only permitted to refer to trenches and trench life in an "abstract" form, i.e. one must not mention places, actions, or units, but must confine himself to a description of the life generally. Thus you will understand how difficult it is to write an interesting letter, for I know you are longing to know just all about what we are doing over here "somewhere in France".
 It would be idle words to try to assure you that the life is "all milk and honey", and that there are no trials or dangers, but 
what kind of a war would it be without them? I can see my dear little mother in pensive mood with strained imagination thinking of Germans as some terrible sort of devils against whom our "poor untrained Australians" are ill-matched. But be assured it is not the case. Some of us
were in the trenches 12 days without seeing a Hun, although on the watch  for them from 3 am. until 10 pm. at night. Most of us almost prayed they would show some fight, or try to prove this "undoubted superiority". No; they are far too shrewd just about here, and live in "fear and trembling" of our nocturnal visits. They do not get it all their own way with their "almighty" artillery, and, believe me, they do get some "hurry up" at times, (which is pretty often). French people in the neighbourhood (for there are still some civilians who do not think of leaving), say, "Australia 'bon'; plenty 'bombard'."
No doubt "Fritz" expresses himself likewise, but I am sure he would substitute quite a different adjective for the "bon" (Perce can translate this word).  For goodness sake! don't think we are constantly under a rain of shells, clouds of asphyxiating gas, liquid fire, (or all other "frightfulness"). Most of the time it is quiet and peaceful, and we are entertained in watching air-duels, and aeroplanes manoeuvring like great majestic hawks. There are times when skylarks are singing blithely over No Mans Land, and the war seems as far distant as it does to you people in far Australia.  So please don't worry, but try and be as cheerful as the French women, who, with husbands and sons "strafing" the Boches, and with homes desolated by shells and pillage, continue on cheerfully and hopefully, praying "Monsieur le bon Dieu" to bring victory to "La France" and their dear ones safe back. These people have suffered all, and we in Australia comparatively not at all.
 And now for news in general. First about Les. My last letter is 2/6/16, and no noubt later ones are at the other camp, and will shortly come along. He was still at Weymouth then. I got his photo, (alone), also one taken with Dr. Gibson, who writes  regularly to me and keeps me smiling. He is "some character" and a fine letter writer. I must put forward my best efforts when I answer his letters, but I admit I cannot "counter" his wit. It is rare. He assures me a good time
when I get to England.  I was very glad my diary came to hand from Egypt, as well as some 
letters and the silk. I had better  luck than I expected. I shall ask you to please look after the diary and see that no leaves are mislaid. The most effective way is not to let it leave 
the house. If you would like anyone 
to read it, they can do so at our place quite easily I think. I have sent the rest of it (up till early in June) to Les at Weymouth. I am waiting to hear if he got it safely. If he did, he should be able to send it along to you safely. It was impossible to write on a pad in the trenches, so I have kept it in the pocket book you gave me, and it may be possible to transcribe it later on.  Re the silk, I am afraid I am a poor hand at buying such stuff, and still worse at knowing what is suitable to send anyone, but what can you expect from a professional "penpusher". Had I been a softgoods man I should have been able to do better.
 I had a letter from Harry (8/5/16) telling me he was jogging along and not much else startling. I am glad  Lenore is doing well. She is a dear little  kid. I got her photo last mail. I think I told you previously I got Ruby's and Gertie's photos, didn't I?
 Well I must close as this is getting bulky. Best love from your affectionate son, Jim. 


[*P.S I am
writing to Ruby and  Perce this mail also. Jim.*]
