Author: Ronald Lennox Henderson

Date: 19.10.1916,
 My dear old Mother We are out of the trenches at the present time - in fact we are a long way from the fighting line in a part of the country that the war has not touched. It is quite jolly to get away from the sight of ruined farm houses & villages, & the sound of guns. We have been making a grand tour of the country on foot for the past week - a very healthy occupation, but not altogether the pleasantest at  this time of year. March from one village to  another & one lot of billets to another - did 18 miles one day, which for men carrying all their worldly possessions on their backs, as well as rifles,  ammunition, equipment etc, is pretty good          going - I have a horse of course, but I do a good  deal of walking when we are on the march.  We have been in this village a a couple of days, but move on tomorrow. It is raining hard like the very dickens just now, so the outlook for tomorrow is not too pleasant, & it is very cold too, I am living at the Priests house in this village & have a miniature room to myself - fairly comfortable. These marching tours are always the prelude to some extra special stunt in the
way of fighting, so I suppose we can look forward to that in the very near future. Long before this letter reaches you it will be over one way or another the other. I have a pretty good idea where we are going to, through no official word on the subject has yet come along. The country that we have been passing through  is very pretty, but it has been too wet for it to be an enjoyable trip. The days are getting pretty short now too & a bit chilly. It is going to be pretty rotten in the trenches very soon. Voting is taking place throughout the Battalion today on the question of conscription. Strangely enough there is a big body of men who are against it here & the anti-conscription vote will be fairly heavy, I think, in the army, There are many cases in which one brother has been left behind to look after the family,  for instance - & they are afraid that he may be brought away too, although a definite promise  has been made given that in such cases the supporting members of the family will not be called up, many of the men are a  bit sceptical as to the value of the promise. Its a pity because from my point of view conscription is the only rational measure to adopt. 28/10/16 Have been unable to send this letter away & have been carrying it in 
my pocket. Have a chance now & will take it. We are right in the thick of things again & a choice spot this is. Its been raining for days & days, & this place is absolutely indescribable. It is quite a common thing to see men hopelessly bogged & have to be  pulled out by their mates - you can imagine (to a slight degree) what it is like hauling & carrying the supplies & ammunition for an immense army through this stuff. Not one of us has been dry for at least a week & there is no prospect of getting dry until we are releived & get back to rest. All my luggage is carried in a small haversack (about the size of an ordinary school boys bag) & ones overcoat pockets, so it dosent does not allow of a  very extensive wardrobe, as a matter of fact two pairs of socks a h'chief, razor, brush toothbrush & piece of soap, with a mug plate knife & fork completes the furniture The thought of us having a bath again makes me almost burst into tears. Ten days since I have had my clothes off & the last seven days of it in a constant bath of glutinous mud. I sometimes  wonder if it will ever come off. I feel as fit as a fiddle certainly outside life agrees with me. The conditions here are really just about as rotten as they could be it is perishingly cold as well but I dont think I ever felt better. There is extraordinarily little sickness amongst the men too. Dr Falkner will be disgusted to know I smoke morning and night - I dont think it is tobacco though - just various kinds of straw - Its mightily comforting  though  - Then love to various members & c R.L.H.                       