Author: Ronald Lennox Henderson

Date: 19.10.1916,
 My Dear old Mother, We are out of  the Trenches at the present time - in fact we are a long way from the fighting line in a part of the country that the war has not touched. It is quite jolly to get away from the sight of ruined farm-houses & villages & the sound of guns. We have been making a grand tour of the country on foot for the past week -  a very healthy occupation, but not altogether the pleasantist at this  time of the year. March from one  village to another & one lot of billets to another - did 18 miles one day, which for men carrying all their worldly possessions on their backs, as well as rifles, ammunition, equipment etc, is pretty good going. I have a horse, of course, but I do a good deal of walking when we are on the march. We have been in this  village for a couple of days, but move on tomorrow. It is raining like the very dickens just now, so the outlook is not
too pleasant for tomorrow's move, & is very cold too. I am living at the Priests  house in this village & have a miniature room to myself - fairly comfortable. These marching tours are always the  prelude to some extra special stunt in the way of fighting, so I suppose we can look forward to that in the very  near future.  Long before you get this it will be all over in one way or the other. I have a pretty good idea where we are  going to, though no official word on the subject has yet come along. The country that we have been passing through is very pretty, but it has been too wet for it to be an enjoyable trip. The days are getting pretty short now too, & a bit chilly.  It is going to be pretty rotten in the trenches very soon. Voting is taking place throughout the Battalion to-day on the question of conscription.  Strangely enough there is a big body of men who are against it here & the anti-conscription vote will be  fairly heavy, I think, in the army. There are so many cases in which one brother has been left behind to look after the
family, for instance, & they are afraid that he may be brought away too, although  a definite promise has been given that in such cases the supporting member of  the family will not be called up, many  of the men are a bit sceptical as to the  value of the promise.  It's a pity, because from every point of view conscription is the only rational measure to adopt.