Author: Ronald Lennox Henderson

Location: No. 2 A.S. Hospital-Tel-el-Kebir
 Date: 17th February 1916,

My Dear old Mother, Have just had a bunch of five  more letters from you & Gussie - the last one was dated  16th January, written when Gussie & the little people were in with you staying, on their way to Jondaryan, so they  are coming through quite quickly now. There must be a  number of old letters still wandering about somewhere though.  Cabling doesn't seem to be a success in this part of the world.  The Cable that you received (or rather Gussie) in January, & which so mystified you all, was sent by me on 6th December, & they got the date mixed up in the message, somehow. The Cable that Gussie sent to me in December was delivered to me about a week after I had got the letter from her, saying that she had cabled. We are still camped at Tel-el-Kebir - all the troops here  are Australian, practically; with the addition of a few  Indians. A regiment of Hyderabad Lancers is camped close to us - they look a useful lot. The Ghurkas are the pick of the bunch though, as far as the Indians are concerned. They have all been sent on however - I don't know where to  - perhaps around to the Persian Gulf. The general opinion here is that there will be no fighting here this year — too many troops in Egypt for the Turk to have any chance.
Everyone is speculating as to what will happen, & where we will all go to after this is over, which ought to be in a couple of months  time at the latest. Everyone hopes for France, but nobody knows anything. This country is alive with Australians - see them in  every sand heap wherever one goes. You'd think that  there couldn't be many left behind, but I suppose there are. 
We have a very comfortable camp here now, & are  having a fairly easy time of it.  There is not much  sickness considering the number of men about, & as  we are only about 2½ hours from Cairo by rail, all  bad cases are sent straight on there every day, to the big General Hospitals. We do nothing except Urgent  things, or trivial things – although every bo sick person  has to come in here before he can be sent on to Cairo. I am having quite a decent time myself  - have nothing to do except look after the sick amongst our own men, & every day clear out all the cases  from this Hospital that should be sent in to Cairo  & see them packed into an Ambulance train. I get everything finished practically by lunch time, In  the afternoon the train leaves & my work consists  in the onerous occupation of sitting in the railway  siding in the coolest place I can find while the train  is loaded. When everybody is got aboard safely & tallied  off to the satisfaction of the Train Medical Officer, off  she goes & I stroll leisurely back to camp. It's years  since I had a job that suited me so well.  
I always had the impression that I would be an adept at watching other people work, but my opportunities  hitherto have been more limited than I could have  desired. It's too good to last I'm afraid. Have been twice into Cairo since we have been here  - duty trips, but managed to work in a little pleasure.  Was in there for two days last time - stayed at the Continental Hotel amongst all the Brass Hats, had  a jolly fine new Berliet Motor Car for the whole of  one day, & altogether had quite a good time. I didn't  see much of Cairo before, so was very glad to have a  chance to see a little of it. I hope to be able to  get a few days leave soon & will have a good look  round then - have been 5½ months now without being  off the chain for any time. The two days in Cairo were  a change, but still I was more or less tied up the  greater part of the time in business appointments etc, & one never gets the real holiday feeling under these conditions. General Howse is coming here tomorrow to stay at this shop for 2 or 3 days, & I think that when  he has gone I will be able to get off for a few days. Ramsden, who brought me out at Adaminaby, is here with the 1st Field Ambulance - was playing Bridge  with him a couple of nights ago. There are numbers  of fellows that I know about here, so we have quite  a good time. War has its redeeming features, if 
one can forget the other side of the picture. This camp is practically on the side of the Battle field of  Tel-el-Kebir:- all the old trenches etc are still there as distinct as the day they were dug, & they run along for miles just at the back of the camps. In front of us  is the Fresh water Canal that runs from the Nile  over to Ishmalia, behind us is the desert with  the old lines of Tel-el-Kebir running along the edge  of the sand ridges - nothing but sand & small stones for miles. Across the Canal is the Village of Tel-el-Kebir surrounded by closely cultivated land, all irrigated, &  every square inch of it covered with the greenest vegetation  you ever saw in your life. The contrast between the two sides of the canal is quite startling. The village is  about ¼ to ½ mile away, to the West of us - it is set in the midst of this beautiful green, & is surrounded  by clumps of date palms, while just to the right of it  is a tall old ruined tower.  Just after sunset before dark when the old tower & the palms stand out darkly against the red glow of the sunset, it makes one of the most striking pictures I have seen. Glad to hear that all goes well at home & with you  all - I am keeping absurdly fit. Would be quite  ashamed to go home looking like I do now.  Love to  Pater & much to your dear old self from your
loving son. R.L.H.