Author: Ronald Lennox Henderson

Date: 1st August 1916,
 My Dear old Mother,  We are at the present time in Rest  Billets about twenty miles behind the firing line - have been  here about three days. Everyone is still feeling pretty tired & extremely peevish, although we are in the most comfortable  billets that we have been in, in France. The strain of  the six days that we had in the scrap was pretty severe &  everyone is more or less suffering a reaction. As you have  probably seen in the papers, we have had a pretty tough  time of it, but a really brilliantly successful one, which  is some recompense. This Division was brought into the  fighting area to take Pozières (I can't see that it can do any harm to mention this name, as the papers have mentioned it  often), a village which had been very strongly fortified by  the Germans and had held up all previous attacks,  three if not four, assaults had been delivered against the place by British troops but all had fall failed, & it was  absolutely necessary to get it, so it really was a great compliment  to be selected for such a job. When we made the attack we found several wounded English & Scottish soldiers (I saw four  altogether myself) who had been wounded in one or other of  the previous attacks & been lying in some shell hole ever since.  One man, a Scotchman, had been lying out for six days with a large wound in his back. I asked him why he 
hadn't crawled out & surrendered to the Germans. He said  "Surrender to those . . . . . s - never, I'd rather die". This  chap had had no food or water all the time & his wound must   have given him absolute Hell, but he always hung on to the  hope that he might be rescued. He only had to raise his  hand, practically, & he could have surrendered to the Germans  as he was almost among them, but he wouldn't. I fixed  him up as well as I could & had him sent back to one of  the ambulances - hope he does all right. He had some grit. The attack was launched at night & this Battalion & one  other in the same Brigade led it, so they think no   small beer of themselves now. It is useless trying to describe the fighting - the most lurid newspaper account   of this type of thing that I ever read is a pale &   anaemic concoction compared to the reality. Three  days out of the six were simply one prolonged sort of   nightmare - no sleep, practically nothing to eat & very little to drink; the incessant roar of the bursting shells  all around & the almost more terrifying "whish - whish-  whish" of them passing through the air; the dead & the  wounded on every side - the whole thing just like Hell. The first day we had great trouble with the wounded - it  was difficult to get them away & there were no places to   put them. We got hold of a couple of large German dug-outs but soon filled them & then we had to lie them end to end  along the floor of comparatively shallow trenches. They 
frequently got buried by the earth flung up by the shells, but  would quickly be dug out again, & fortunately very few were  hit a second time. It was pathetic seeing the poor beggars  lying there hour after hour with shells dropping all round  & raining earth on to them - they looked & felt so helpless, though really the strongest man was no better off against  shell fire.  At the end of the first 24 hours we had got   them all cleared back to the Field Ambulances & after that we were able to keep pace with things & get the wounded away  almost immediately. It is extraordinary the sort of callous  mental condition that people get into during an affair of this sort - I was using one German dug-out as a sort of dressing   station for a time, I was down in the dug-out dressing some cases   prior to sending them out to the ambulance, when a shell burst   in the entrance.  Two wounded men & a stretcher bearer were sitting on the steps leading down to the dug-out. One of them   was blown up & the other two were buried in the débris of earth  & wood etc - all were killed of course. One of the buried men was   just at the entrance & his head & face were just protruding from the heap of earth that had buried him. Just looked to make   sure he was dead & then went on dressing the cases & men  passed in & out & nobody ever took the faintest notice of the  poor head. It was still there when I abandoned the dug-out. The  escapes that people have are marvellous. One wounded man  had just been brought along on a stretcher & I had a look at him 
He wasn't very seriously wounded, apparently, & I told two orderlies of mine to move him & hand him over to the Stretcher Bearers. They were just picking the stretcher up when a shell landed bang on it - the poor patient & stretcher simply ceased to exist, there was practically nothing of him  these two orderlies were both knocked kicking, but neither had a scratch on him & inside two minutes they were both at work again. Another fellow (one of our officers) was sitting on the ground when a big shell struck about 8 feet behind him (he was facing away from the enemy). It flung him into the air & he came down flop into the bit of a hole it made & nothing happened - it  was a faulty shell & didn't explode. Beyond a little shaking he was unhurt. One could go on for hours only your patience & my pencil would both wear out. The attack as of course you know, was a complete success & the Deitcher was driven clean out of his lair, but it was a hard fight.  Our General, who is an Englishman (old Regular Army) is simply delighted. Says this Division is the best & finest attacking Division in the British army - & do you know I believe he's right. Anyhow they are a lot to be proud of, & it would be hard to better them. The  Division that Bill Cullen & Bartin are in took our place when we came out - they had to hold the position. Haven't heard anything of either of them.  Suppose that when we reorganise & re-equip we will go back again. Good - bye, dear old Mother, this is rather a gruesome letter I fear. Much love to Pater & dear old Nell & your old self  Yr loving son R.L.H.