Author: Ronald Lennox Henderson

Location: France.
 Date: 27th May 1916,
 My Dear old Mother, Have just received a letter from  you dated 25th March - a little while before got one written some time in February. I wonder where the  ones in the interval go to. There have evidently  been some as you refer to several things that  I evidently ought to have heard about - "Uncle  Edwin", for instance. I suppose that the  two girls have gone out also - hope that they  soon get something suitable to do. I gather from your letter that they are all in Australia. How is Gladys? Hope she has quite got over her old lung n throat trouble. The last letter that I had from Gussie must have been written several weeks before the one that I have just had from you, so I am a bit out of gear with news. Sorry to hear that poor old Nell has not been too well again, but hope that she is as fit as ever again long before this. I think she had better enlist - might get attached 
to this Battalion if she joined the A.M.C. I have  just been looking at the photo - in one of the London Illustrated papers - of an English girl who  enlisted in the [[?]] Army & is now a Sergeant.  Tell her I will make her my orderly if she came  along. We are having a quiet & peaceful time just at present - that is to say we are out of the trenches having what is called a "rest" in Billets about four miles behind the firing line. The rest consists in training most of the day & working most of the night - still the men don't mind & they keep wonderfully fit & cheery.  They are well fed & well clothed, & in most cases well-housed while they are on this sort of work, & if he has the two first of these things a sound man will stand a mint of hard work. We are billeted in a village & here life goes on much as it would at any time – the majority of the inhabitants still remain & carry on "business as usual".  Occasionally the Deitcher shells the place, but it is out of range of everything except heavy artillery & it isn't often  worth their while to use that. When it does happen  the local inhabitant retires into the cellar or into  the adjoining country & at the end of the show  he either returns to his undamaged domicile, or  he is homeless - in either case he (& she) come to take the matter philosophically. If th one of these big shells does hit a house - "mafish" - it is  finished, but most of them miss fortunately.  It is remarkable the way in which you will see one  house absolutely blown to atoms & just beside it  another one that remains absolutely untouched.  I haven't got much to do here; am practically  always finished by lunch time. Have a good  horse & usually go out for a ride somewhere in the afternoon. Am managing to see quite a lot of  the country in this way, so I'm getting something out  of the rest, if no one else is. We will be  returning to the trenches very soon, probably before  I write next time. The weather is still a bit  wet, but nothing like it was when we first went in so things will be more comfortable now. All our officers are getting leave for England for a few days at the present  time, & they are going away one or two at a time  I am due to go also, but don't think that I will take it just at present. I feel as fit as a fiddle & have nothing particular that I want to  do in England. Might go later on if I get  another chance then. Haven't heard from Jack yet – will write to him again if I don't hear in a few days. There is really very little chance of seeing anyone over here – it is only possible if you both your units happen to be out resting at the same time, & both happen to be fairly close together, & when each individual is able to find out where the other is & what he is doing - all four things being highly improbable. Bill Cullen ought to be somewhere close to us now, but haven't been able to see him. Will do so if I can before we return to the trenches. Rex seems to  be a permanent "sick man" & Barlin I have heard nothing of at all. They have both been in & out of hospital for months I believe. It's a funny thing that Stanley should have been the one of the lot that was chock full of grit - he never chucked in the sponge for anything & must have been full of pluck. Unfortunately so many fellows have run some sickness or comparatively slight wound for all that it is worth & have managed to re- main more or less indefinitely away from their units on the strength of it, that the whole business of being away ill carries a sort of stigma with it. Good men are ashamed to go sick, because every man who is away ill for long is regarded with suspicion by his companions, & in most cases with a good deal of justice. I'm afraid that only too many men that get back to Australia for a trip, & much more so those who get to  England & remain there for months, are usually suffering from "Cold Feet". Unfortunately the doctors who see these men at the Base are not men who have ever seen the soldier under active service conditions (I mean in the trenches or close to them) & they do not realise that there are thousands & thousands of men there who get more or less ill, but stick to their job all the time – consequently they are too soft-hearted & give men & officers 2 or 3 months furlough instead of hunting them back to work. It is grossly unfair, because the bigger cur a man is the better time  he has. Many of the officers who have gone back to Australia, & whom you are fěting & feasting there as returned heroes, are men 
who would be practically ostracised by their late companions if they returned to their old units here. The only soldiers who ought to return to Australia are (1) "permanently unfit men" (2) Men who have had Typhoid Fever (3) Men who have been severely wounded, or had a big operation! Practically all others are frauds - that is they are the "cold footed crowd" & ought to be ducked in the town drain, instead of being acclaimed as heroes. It is annoying enough for a comparative intruder like myself to read about "so & so – the hero of . . . . . in Gallipoli " with his photo in the papers & Lord knows what, when everyone here knows that "so & so" took the first opportunity of going sick & stopping sick, that his sole object in life was to get away from the bullets - it must be maddening for the men who have really done the work & who are still doing it (if they haven't been killed) to read about it. Believe me this "hero of Gallipoli" is not to be found among the men who are in Australia (or England) on sick Leave for 3 or 6 months (unless he comes under one of the above (2) headings) – he's under the sod or he is right here, or else he has gone home a permanent wreck (as far as military 
service goes). You will think I have got a "nat" on this subject, but it is a thing that everyone here feels pretty strongly on, &  people not at home ought to know. When I [[was?]] to read this over it looks rather   as though I were thinking of Rex & Barton, but of  course I am not - I know nothing about them  whatsoever. I wouldn't go bail for the first, but I  can't imagine the second developing cold feet - but of course I don't know anything about either of   them. (For Heaven's sake don't let Aunt Emma see   this). I can't express the whole feeling in this question here better than by telling you that  if one has a relative who has been in England  sick for some months, one doesn't mention   him. Finis.   Dr McKillop (from Dalby) was wounded here  a little while ago, but not severely I believe.  He was attached to one of the Battalions that  was in support of ours at the time, & had the  bad luck to be got by a bit of shell or shrapnel.  He got out of it luckily I suppose, considering that he was hit - might have been much  worse. I met him a few times over here. 
I think that some men are meant to be hit, &  some are not, & whichever class you happen to  be in is no concern of your own at all -   you'll get it or miss it, whatever you do   yourself, according to the way destiny has  decided.  I wonder whether I shall hear from  Gussie & the little people soon - I often  wonder how the little beggars are getting on.  I want Peter to learn boxing - I don't mean  straight away, but as soon as he is old enough.  I think that it is one of the most necessary  accomplishments for a boy & man - in fact  it is one of the few subjects that I would like   to insist of on his becoming adept in. I  have often talked to the little chap about it.  Give my love to Pater & Nell & all at  home (I am writing them, but letters are  uncertain). Much for your good old self  from your loving son   RLH.