Author: Ronald Lennox Henderson

Date: 4th June 1916,
 My Dear old Mother, I was glad to have a  couple more letters from Gussie & from the little people a few days ago, bringing the news up to the end of March. I expect that I  will soon be getting letters addressed direct to me here & will then get them more  certainly & quickly. At present they come along very irregularly. Gussie mentioned  one or two parcels being sent, but they have  not turned up yet. By the way I  never got that parcel containing the Sanatogen that was sent some time last year - I don't  think that I need it (Sanatogen) particularly though. One is able to get almost anything  within reason that one requires in this part of the world. When you are out of the Trenches  having a spell you are within reach of good  military Canteens & there are quite decent shops in some of the small towns a few miles back  from the line, where most ordinary requirements  can be met. Everything here is very different in that respect from Gallipoli or even Lemnos, where you got practically nothing  except military supplies or what might be sent  to you. I think I told you that four of   us - the C.O.; the major; the adjutant & myself - bought quite a good gramophone in  a little shop in a small town in this part of the world. Got a number of quite good records  too. We carried the whole outfit about five miles one night - it was a pretty solid weight  too, as it is a big one. However have had a lot of amusement out of it since. If it  survives it will be quite an interesting instrument to keep after the war is over, for whichever  one keeps it. We have just had news of the naval battle  in the North Sea. Rather bad luck losing those boats, but these things must happen, &  it may encourage the Deitches to come out & have another go, & give our fellows a chance  to give them a real good drubbing.  -   The Germans generally put up a notice to let  us know about this sort of news. They told us that Townshend had surrendered at Kut 
several days before we heard it from our own side. Haven't heard or seen their version of  this last scrap yet, however. they are persistent swine - keep pegging away at  Verdun don't they? It's a good way of getting them killed off, anyhow.  It is jolly cold here to-day - quite a little snap of winter, but not raining thank good-  ness. It's cold enough to make a little fire in a brazier very acceptable even in the  middle of the day, & I have got a thick cardigan on at present. The trenches are  nice & dry all about here now, so it is very much more comfortable than it was when we  first came in. It must be a brute in the winter. I have got a very comfortable dug-out  in our new place - its high enough to stand up  in, in the middle part of it & has more room  altogether than my last residence. If the weather will keep fine it will be quite snug.  Hughes & Fisher have been in this part of the world having a look at some of us. I did  not see them as I was otherwise engaged (on my own arrangement). They discreetly stayed some  miles away from the bullet zone, which was  of course quite right of them & the men  were marched back there to be examined & to  listen to the words of wisdom that fell from the Prime Minister's ruby lips. I believe  he spoke well, but a bit too much "Australia" about it.  Hope that Nell is well again - has she enlisted yet? Love to her & Pater & much for your good old self, from   RLH