
Author: Ronald Lennox Henderson

Location: On board the R.M.S.  Orintes
 Date: 18th August 1915,


THE ORIENT LINE OF ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS BETWEEN ENGLAND and AUSTRALIA  Passengers Booked For Gibraltar, Toulon, Naples, Port Said, Suez, Colombo, Fremantle, Adelaide,  Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, and all Chief Ports in Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand. Head Offices: FENCHURCH AVENUE, LONDON. West End Branch Office: 28, COCKSPUR STREET, S.W. 
 My Dear old Mother, We are due to arrive in Columbo tomorrow, so must get my letters written before that. There is a possibility that we may not be able to land there, as we may be only there at night & nobody is allowed about there at night because the  place is under Martial Law. 
That will be bad luck - Fremantle  to Suez without a break is a long run. We were delayed so much by the  very rough weather in the Bight that it has put everything out I fear. Since Fremantle we have had a good trip & in unusually cool air. We are in the cool side of the ship & have the best cabins on the upper deck, so have nothing to complain of. My fat Irishman from Brisbane, who is my cabin mate, has been in bed for two days suffering from  the results of vaccination.  Several of the nurses are pretty bad too. I did not take, so will have to be done again later on. In the meantime will have the joy & felicity of being inoculated against typhoid. 
there is a man named Cheney on board who lives somewhere Jindaryan way & knows Kent & the Williams family well. He is going on to join the troops in England - King Edwards House I think. There are thirteen other fellows going over to get commissions in England, & also an Aviator on his way to the Persian Gulf. Altogether quite a military family. In the steerage are a number of Italian Reservists going to Italy to join the Italian  Army. Some of them are pretty  tough looking characters too. I wonder very much how things  are getting on at  Crow’s Nest, & whether the Locum is behaving  himself properly. The little people have quite settled down to
the new order of things I  expect - they are wise little folk. I will be very glad to get the first letters & hear how everyone  is. Haven’t heard anything since  Melbourne. Had a wire from Mr Purvis at Fremantle, wishing me luck - decent of the old boy wasn’t it? Didn’t have time  to go & see him. Must say good-bye now. much love from your loving son R.L.H
Give my love to Pater when you are writing /. 