Author: Ronald Lennox Henderson

Date: 30th September 1916,
 My Dear old Mother. Here we are back in the Trenches again, after spending a week or so in Reserve. We are in a part of the line that we have not been in before, though it is not far away from our last position. Fortunately it is about the most comfortable place that we have been in - our front line is in  the top of a ridge & the Deitcher is a  little way down on the far side, so that he is unable to see our side of the ridge at all. Consequently we are able to walk about, quite close to our line, in  the open, which is a regular God-send. One gets sick to death of sitting about in rat holes & slinking down drains, & it is quite nice to be able to walk about in the top of the trenches like one can here. We are in the middle
of what was in pre-war days evidently a jolly little wood - now it consists of a  number of straight bare poles, like telegraph poles broken off at irregular heights with a bit of green undergrowth in places & some quite pretty ferns in some of the old shell holes. According to the map there is a village just beside us on the edge of the wood. I have looked for it carefully, but all one can find now is a couple of cellars full of water & a big heap of bricks & rubble - not a trace of a building anywhere to be seen. I hope that it will not be very long before the German sees  some of his own villages & towns in the  same condition. I would die happy I think (not that I have the slightest desire to die) if I could see the whole of the Deitcher country in a smoking ruin from end to end. When their country is reached, as it certainly will be some day, it will be made such a mess of that Belgium will 
look as if it had just stepped out of a Barrel box in comparison. Thank  heavens the prattling idiots who blather about humanity & who will tell one that two wrongs don't make a right, will not be anywhere on the spot then to see what is being done. I don't mean to say that our fellows will go murdering round the country, but certainly if there is any fighting going on in the neighbourhood of a German village or town I think that our Artillery could manage to accidentally drop sufficient high explosive to fairly satisfactorily demolish the same. Everybody is getting more & more bitter, I think, the longer the business goes on. News has been very good lately from our side of the line - the Deitcher has had some really good solid kicks in the ribs lately. He is having a perfect Hades of a time everywhere in this front, & it will steadily get worse & worse till he will wish most  devoutly that he had never started this business. From now on till the war ends he will be steadily & systematically
smashed - without any flurry or hurry, but without any respite - at least I think that this will be the case. From where we are on the top of this ridge we look back down the slope & across a little plain to the ruins of ............... I can't write the name or the censor may come down on me. This place lies to the west &  north of us & in the evening at sunset it is a most striking sight. The broken  walls of the battered town with the Tower of the ruined Cathedral standing out white & clear against the red sky & the remains of the wonderful old Cloth Hall close beside it make a picture which one is never likely to forget. This battered, broken, place has quite got hold of my imagination. It might to be kept just exactly as it is, after this war is  over, to remain as a permanent monument - the sight of it might help to prevent any other lot of asses starting another war some day. A new town could be built a few miles away. Even as a  financial proposition it would pay, as all the non-fighting people in the world
would flock to see it. I don't think that any of those who have had to live in the rat holes about here will ever want to come back. You mentioned in one of your letters that Gerald Neania was over here somewhere, He was killed recently - I happened to see his name in one of the lists & guessed it must be the same family. He is  the little curly-headed boy, I suppose, that I can remember at Macknade. Had a letter from Nell by last mails written from Rockhamptin, also one from Aunt Lucy. Nell seemed to be in  good spirits & Aunt Lucy said that she looked well. Gussie in her last letter speaks of Gertie having gone away & mentions  that she & the two little folk are alone. I don't like the idea of her living alone with just the children. If no other arrangement can be made for someone to be with her at Crows
Nest, it would be better to close up the place & move to some place where some other arrangement could be made. Everyone will be hopelessly insolvent by the end of the war - I know I will be, so the matter of the practice will have to be considered as a  secondary matter. I would like the connection with Crows Nest kept up if possible per medium of the family, but I would rather lose that than have  them there on their own. I have written  to Gussie about it too. Must say good-night now, dear  old Mother. Love to Pater & much  for your good old self from your loving son R.L.H.