
Author: Lord Liverpool
Recipient: Lord William Birdwood
Date: 22 February 1916
Nationality: New Zealand


Text:  Dear General, Thanks very much for your letter of the 13th December, which I have just received. We have despatched the two Hospital Ships once more on their journey and I understand that the "Marama" took a large consignment of wounded to England, and has now left England on the 15th February for the purpose of doing further duty in the Mediterranean. The "Maheno" will be arriving in a few days at Suez and I understand that they are sending her back to New Zealand with a full compliment of wounded from Egypt, together with some invalids from England, which the "Marama" is dropping for her. I was very grateful for all your notes in respect to the "Maheno" and as far as possible I have had all your suggestions carried out. It has been a little difficult to make the alterations as regards the officers' quarters. I am well aware that sick officers do like to have privacy, but owing to lack of space, it has been impossible for me to have separate cabins constructed, otherwise it would have lessened the amount of accommodation which the ship could carry. I am sure you will appreciate my desire to meet your wishes in every respect, but I think you will agree with me that it was best not to construct separate cabins at the expense of the general accommodation. I shall always be grateful if you will inform me on any point regarding alterations to the Hospital Ships which you may think desirable.  As there was no very severe fighting taking place just after your evacuation of Anzac, I suggested to Lord Kitchener that if he thought it desirable, and if of any service to him, we should be delighted if one of the Hospital Ships was sent to the Persian Gulf as I understood that the accommodation for the wounded in that sphere of operations was not perhaps as good as in others. However he replied that he did not think that the ship could be usefully employed in the Persian Gulf. as only shallow draft steamers could be used. I am sorry that this has not been possible because I hear that our wounded suffered considerably after the Battle of Ctesphion, and in the case of my own brother, he was from November 22nd to December 5th before he got into a hospital, and I know that the casualties were very heavy. I have been in correspondence with Lord Hardinge and we are now arranging to send a consignment of Red Cross goods from here for the troops in Mesopotamia. I am glad that we have been able to acquiese in your wishes to form a complete New Zealand Division. It has been made possible from the fact that you have not asked us to increase our quota of reinforcements. One has so many things to consider here in finding reinforcements, that I think we have arrived at practically the limit of our power of increase. When I say this, I wish you to remember the fact that one cannot indefinitely denude the industries of the Dominion, because the Secretary of State for the Colonies has impressed on us the necessity of keeping up our full supply of wool and meat for the feeding of the various Armies in the field. There is always a section of the population who desire to do a little bit more than it would be feasible to do, and they of course are not aware of the secret communications which have passed between Mr Harcourt, Mr Bonar Law, and myself, on this subject, and I feel certain that you will agree that a certain number of men which we have pledged ourselves to send every four weeks, as reinforcements, is a far more valuable asset to the Empire generally, than a doubtful increase of this number, and which might possibly hinder the various industries to which I have referred. Although perhaps I ought not to say so, I think that the men who are being sent now are quite as good as any who have gone before them, and further, I gather, although I would not say it to anyone else but you, that their discipline, training and behavior, are greatly in advance of our Australian brothers. So far as the new Regiment of the New Zealand Rifle Brigade is concerned, I think that the 4th Battalion which has lately sailed from Auckland was the best Battalion I have seen, it is curious that such should be the case as I passed nearly the whole of my service in our own 4th Battalion. I am sure whoever you appoint in command of the Brigade will be worthy of that appointment. Braithwaite is an old friend of mine and I went to Sandhurst at the same time, so for many reasons I should be glad to see him in command, although he is not a Rifleman by birth. You are well aware that the troops, when they get to Egypt now, are being provided with rifles supplied from Home, and I have just suggested to the Imperial Authorities that if possible these arms should be sent to New Zealand so that the troops could be actually trained with them, because you well understand
how valuable it is for a man to shoot, during his training, with his own rifle. I do not know whether this will be possible to do. In conclusion I desire to reciprocate your good wishes for 1916.
Believe me, Yours sincerely, Liverpool


GOVERNMENT HOUSE DOMINION OF NEW ZEALAND
Government House WELLINGTON

[*Private & Personal*]