
Author: Lord Liverpool
Recipient: Lord William Birdwood
Date: 2 August 1916
Nationality: New Zealand

Text:

Dear Sir William Birdwood, I thought I would like to let you know privately of a matter which has been brought to my notice confidentially. The New Zealand Government have for a considerable time felt very strongly regarding the position of those officers, both Imperial and New Zealand, who have been carrying out so efficiently the training of the various Reinforcements. The Government of this Dominion have considered it their duty to retain the services of these officers in New Zealand in order that the drafts may reach the highest possible efficiency in training.   They have also considered most carefully the possibility of employing officers who have already been abroad and who are no longer fit for active service, but they recognise that the work would be beyond the capabilities of such men as a great strain is being put upon all engaged in that work. In passing, I may remark that all these officers have been most anxious to go out themselves, and it has been most difficult to persuade them to recognise the fact that the work which they are doing here is invaluable to the troops at the front.   Such being the case, the New Zealand Government
are determined that their services shall not remain unrecognised and so become "out of sight, out of mind". I am very pleased to say that in the case of the Commandant, Brigadier-General Sir Alfred Robin, and the Chief of the General Staff, Colonel C. M. Gibbon, their services were recognised at the King's last Birthday ; but the reason that I am writing to you is that apparently Sir Alexander Godley takes a totally different view.   He has written conveying the impression that no-one who has not seen active service can expect rewards, and while I should not like this letter quoted, I felt that it was only right to inform you that these ideas of his have not been favourably viewed here, more especially as they come from a man who has received a good many "plums" inside of two years.    I have never mentioned a word to you before, but I cannot disguise the fact that General Godley is looked upon as a somewhat selfish individual, nor can I banish from my mind the fact that he is not popular amongst New Zealand officers or men.    I have little doubt that you have also known of this, but, like myself, have preferred to hold your tongue.    To my mind, it is a great pity because, unquestionably, General Godley did great service to this 
Dominion in furthering the interests of the national service scheme. Personally, Sir Alexander and myself have always been on the best of terms, and had not his views been so strongly expressed on the subject to which I have alluded, I should have said nothing, but should he in course of conversation mention the matter of awards and promotions for those who have been less fortunate than himself and who have had to remain in New Zealand, I should be grateful ( if you agree of course ) if you would support the views of both myself and my Ministers. I have taken a very strong stand on this question because, from my personal experience in the service, I know that a great deal of very good, and indeed invaluable, work has not received the reward which it merited, because it did not happen to be in the public eye, and a Rifleman has always been brought up to help those who are not so fortunately placed as himself.
Believe me, Yours sincerely, Liverpool.

GOVERNMENT HOUSE DOMINION OF NEW ZEALAND
WELLINGTON,
PERSONAL AND SECRET
