
Author: Lord Liverpool

Recipient:  William Birdwood

Date: 22 December 1915
Nationality: New Zealand

Text:

My dear General,
Many thanks for your letter of the 29th October.
Will you permit me to congratulate you and all associated with you on the result of the withdrawal operations which we have just heard have been so successfully carried out? Our 2nd Hospital ship, the "Marama", left here on December 5th. I do not actually know what her destination will be : I am rather in hopes that she will fetch up somewhere in your locality, but the Imperial Authorities have been impressing upon me the necessity of having Hospital Ships to carry the wounded between Suez and New Zealand and between Suez and Australia, and she may be detailed for that work, although I gather from what Cowans tells me that it will not debar her from going into the Mediterranean.    After all, as one was bound to put the Hospital Ships at the disposal of the Imperial Government to use wherever they thought best, I did not think it advisable to make too many stipulations, though I have asked, if it is found possible, that the Ships should be used as far as practicable for the benefit of New Zealanders.
 I have also said that my Government would never agree to any of the doctors, nurses, or personnel being taken off any of the Ships. I am grateful to you for your remarks about the defects of the "Maheno".   Most of them I knew of before she left New Zealand, but if I had rectified them then, it would have delayed the Ship, and at that time I felt that you would be very glad to get her at Anzac as soon as possible. I superintended practically the whole of the fitting and equipment  of her myself, and any mistakes which were made I am quite prepared to take the blame for. I think you may take it for granted that the Dominion will certainly be able to fulfil its obligations to provide the necessary quota of monthly reinforcements. We have just organized a new recruiting scheme, similar to that which has been in force in Ireland under the auspices of the Lord Lieutenant, and I am Patron of the new scheme here. It aims at interesting the whole community in keeping up a constant stream of reinforcements.   It also provides that the men required for the industries of the country are not to be taken, and, thirdly, it arranges that men are not to leave
 their employment until the time arrives when they are required to go into camp, so that as far as possible business shall not be dislocated, especially as it is vitally important that we should maintain our efforts in the direction of keeping up the food supplies of the Armies of ourselves and our Allies in Europe. The 3rd and 4th Battalions of the New Zealand Rifle Brigade of which I am Colonel will leave here in the course of the next few weeks, and then you will have two New Zealand Infantry Brigades.    Godley has chaffed me over all the "Jims" which he thinks that as a Rifleman I shall introduce into the Regiments. They are very harmless ones, and of course one can hardly expect a Guardsman to have brains enough to compete with any of the "Black Hearts"!    I think you will find, though, that the four Battalions will do credit to the name which their Imperial brethren bear.   They are a good, wroughty, buggey lot, as every Rifleman should be. With every good wish for 1916, Yours sincerely,
Liverpool