
Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth
Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt Date: 6 March 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:    Dearest Mother & all at Home.  Another line to let you  know that I am in the best of good health & thoroughly  enjoying myself altho', I am sorry to say, we have not  done any fighting yet, but hope to very shortly.  We are open to fight anybody: Black or White,  & we hope to go to Turkey, as the fighting will suit  us better as it will be more open & than all this  underground business that they are doing in France.  An Australian generally likes to see the chap he  is fighting & we hope to deal out an extraordinary amount  of "stoush" to the Turk, if we go there.  I told you in my last letter about the terrible  lies Capt Bean ( correspondent) had published about   the conduct of the Troops in Cairo, in the "Argus",  well, he has had such a bad time this week from   officers & men that he has found it necessary to send  a cablegram to Australia quite the contrary to the  previous one he sent, so I hope the people of  Australia will not believe his rotten lies any  longer, because the general conduct of all ranks  (altho I say it myself) is exemplary. 
It is gradually getting warmer here & the flies  are beginning to get very troublesome & persistent.  We have been doing a lot of night manoevres &  so of course are getting used to 3 am. stables. No  matter how hot it is in the daytime here, as soon  as the Sun sets. it gets perishing cold by 7pm.  Yesterday morning, something awoke me about  5am. & I could hear one of my drivers (who was on  stable picquet) calling out " What are you doing  there, you black dog" a number of times, there was  no answer, & then I heard the sound of scampering  feet & the driver calling out the Guard to "Stop him"  They caught him & it turned out to be a nigger  who had stolen some books & clothes of some of  our chaps who sleep outside their tents. Of course  the nigger was jabbering in his own lingo, but  Croughan (the driver) would have none of him & took  some of the sacks which the nigger was carrying &  put, or rather made him get into the sack himself, &  when he had tied the top up, he went & got a   bucket of water & poured it all over the nigger  & this set him wailing & howling (terrible curs, the  niggers) & this brought out the Native Policeman  who is attached to us & he brought out his stock  whip, upended the nigger & placed him in 
such an attitude that his sitting down place  was uppermost (nigger wailing & howling all  the time) Then the Police told him in his own  lingo that that particular portion of his anatomy  was about to undergo a process of being warmed   to compensate for the water which had been thrown  over him. Nearly everybody was out by this time  in all sorts of clothes, some without, to watch this  most interesting operation. All the time the  "John" was telling him how hard he was going  to catch it, & the nigger was howling in a most  miserable manner, then the operation began.  It looked just like a half sack of something  from a distance, but on closer inspection, there  could be no doubt of the outline that the prisoner  was in the proper position, at least the policeman   had no doubts at all events, for he fell to &  thrashed that nigger in a most alarming manner  about at the rate of 120 strokes a minute, &  only knocked off because he got tired. Of course  the yells that emerged from the sack had  never been heard the like before. After this  the John locked him up for Robbery, Resisting  the Police, & causing a disturbance. It is  needless to say that we haven't  seen him since 
Last Thursday, I went on whole day Leave  & spent the day in Cairo, in company with my  Corporal (Petterson) & 2 others, I visited a hat  shop first & had a new band put inside  as the old one was getting pretty crook. Next we  visited the Photographers where the boys get   their work developed, & got the photo's which I  enclose. They are my Subsection & Team.  All tip top fellows & will  fight to a finish.  Next we went to Dinner. 2/- each, (dear enough  but can't eat it at a cheaper price) had soup,  Fowl, vegetables, cake & fruit. Afterwards we went   to the Museum & saw all kinds of wonderful  Mummies & things. We saw the actual remains  of Rameses. & his wife, who are in a remarkable   state of preservation, altho very ugly. The  mummies are very wonderful, but as Chas Dickens  ^says are "staring intensely at nowhere". We also saw  the Jewel room & therein was all the jewellry that  is put in the coffins of dead Kings, Queens, Etc  Some of the mummies are about 20 feet   high & altho they may have the ordinary  bodies, they have different kinds of  heads, such as Snakes, Lions, Birds &  all different kinds of creatures. 
We go every Wednesday & Saturday night  either to the Pathe Pictures or else to the Boxing  Stadium of the 7th Battalion (Victoria) & here  we see some good boxing matches between  Australians & New Zealanders. Nearly all  the Officers (including Generals) go to these &  one has to go early to get a good seat.  We have interesting lectures still, of the war  by General Owen, who has just come straight  from the Front to take command of us. He  has had some wonderful adventures & escapes.  All our chaps are well & wish to be remembered  to all. Our Quarter Master Sergeant is in trouble  again & to-day stood his Trial by Court Martial  for neglect of Duty & Drunkness, He was found  Guilty, but has not been sentenced yet.  I hope you are all well at home & elsewhere  Give my kind regards to all kind enquirers  Hope you got my Registered Parcel by last  Mail & that Mab got her Post cards. I hope  Rupert is well, also you, & that things are much  better regarding the price of living  Well good bye, Mum for the present  from your loving Son,  Norman