
Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth
Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt  Date: 4 April 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:

Mena Camp, Cairo, Egypt. 4th April 1915.  Dearest Mother & all at Home, Just a line to let you know that we have finished our training here, and are about to leave for the Front & nothing could give me more infinite joy than to tell you this glorious news. Most of the Infantry & Light Horse have left here & the first portion of the Artillery leave here first thing tomorrow morning. We are only taking rations for two days so we expect to land in the Dardanelles or some other handy place & there pick up the remainder of the Allied Forces under the command of General Sir Ian Hamilton. We are to go away with every vehicle crammed full of shells & 50 rounds of rifle ammunition are to be carried on every man, & as we have been told that we will probably land under fire, we are full of joyous expectancy. Every one of us is quite a different man & are as keen as mustard since the news came. I have promised myself to lay & fire the first shot against the enemy, who ever they are. We have clipped all our horses this week & I might state that I have become an expert hand at the game, as I did quite a number in my "Sub". 
Well, Mother, I am sorry to tell you that some of the Maoris & New Zealanders & a few Australians played up in Cairo the other night, & several houses of ill fame were burnt to the ground. The military police charged the crowd & several people were injured. All leave has since been stopped & of course, this was to be expected. Most of the men who took part in the Riot belonged to the newly arrived contingents, as the first lot were all out on bivouac that night. We spent Easter very quiet & had a holiday on Good Friday. The meals were as usual, very plain so we went to a cook shop run by an English woman, in Camp, & had a jolly good feed for 5 piastres (1/-). Well, Mother, I haven't any more news at present as I wrote a long letter last week. I will try & write as often as I can to you, but we expect everything to pass through censor, so I will not be able to say much. I will now assure you all that I am at present about to enter in the joy of my life, & one of my highest wishes have been gratified. So with the best of love to you all at Home Sweet Home. I remain Your loving and happy Son Norman. 

I hope to meet our George at the Front sooner or later Norman  Don't forget the dinner when we come home, Mum 