
Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth
Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt  Date: 31 March 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:  Dearest Mother & all at Home, Another line or two as there is a  Mail closing tomorrow morning for Australia, so I though I  wouldn't miss the opportunity, altho' I have already written  to you this week. I have been wondering if you get my letters  regularly each week, because I haven't missed writing to you  any week since we arrived in Egypt. We had our Xmas  dinner on the Sahara & there is nothing surer than we will  have Easter Dinner on it too. We have to put up with some of  the most disagreeable pests imaginable, now that the summer  is so rapidly coming on. First there is the Flies : They would  not only make a Parson swear, but would probably induce  him to become a Bullock driver immediately, in order that  he could express his sentiments about them in more  comforting language to himself. Words simply fail one to  describe the way they they annoy one. Persistency must be their motto.  They are only removed by violence to return again at  once.  Mosquitoes are another curse which we have to put up  with & at night time, it is a misery to go to bed. We  have been compelled to put chaff bags over our heads  when we go to bed to try & dodge the "cows", & of course
it is nearly impossible to go to sleep under these conditions,  & one simply has to lie awake & listen to them lobbing on  the outside of the chaff bag. No matter how expert one  tries to cover his head , they can get in & then one has  to uncover to drive the "cows" out to the accompanyment  of very strong language. Even at the early hours at 2am  one can hear the other chaps going "crook" & Yardley  generally gets up & walks about smoking a cigarette,  too disgusted to speak to anyone.  Locusts have invaded Egypt in trillions & altho' they  don't get out as far as the Desert, they swarm through  the cultivation and ruin the crops.  The Dust Storms , well, I simply can't describe them  to you. St Kilda Rd on a "Northerly Buster" Day is  a pleasant refreshing breeze , compared with what we  have to put up with . It is quite impossible to see any  further than 2 feet, & when one makes for his tent to try  & get shelter, he not only finds it gone , but all his  clothes & equipment quite buried in the sand .  Meals, on these days , are a pleasure, & when the  stew is brought from the cook shop (providing, of course,  the cook has been able to cook one) it is adorned by  layers of dust, straw and all kinds of filth which comes  with the storm, it is quite a disappointment if there is not at least 1 inch of dust in the bottom of ones cup.  Well, Mother enough of this grumbling , now for the other  news. We had a fine inspection by General Sir Ian  Hamilton this week. There were present the 4th Light  Horse Regiment 1,000 strong, The Divisional Artillery which  consists of 3 Brigrades of 3 Batteries & an Ammunition  Column in each & a Divisional Ammunition Column as  well (5,000 all told) & the Divisional Engineers with  their Tool carts & Pontoon bridging wagons & all their  War equipment . We were all formed up in line &  inspected & then marched past. First, came the  Light Horse in line of squadrons of 100 in each line  They looked splendid & their dressing was fine .  Then came the 1st Field Artillery Brigade (N.S.Wales)  in line of batteries 12 guns in each line & the  waggons following in rear. We, the 2nd F.A Brigade  followed in the same formation, & after us came the  3rd Brigade. The Engineers followed in rear & brought  to a finish a sight I would have liked you to have  seen. All the men & horses were at their best.  Monday, I had charge of a gun carriage in a funeral  of Private Pickles of the 1st (N S Wales) Field Ambulance  To-day, we buried one of our Drivers (Charlie Newman)  of Coburg & the whole battery turned out & gave him a Military Funeral. I had the task of breaking  in the Firing Party for Sergt Moon, to whose subsection  he belonged. Moon was quite unequal to the  occasion & as Dowsett knew just enough to leave  it alone, I fell in for it, & altho' I say it myself, the  boys shaped fairly well. We brought the coffin  from Mena House & placed it in a Tram & proceeded  to Giza tram terminus, where the gun carriage with the  team which Newman drove in, hooked in, & the 5th Infantry  supplied a band, so we made quite a decent little  show. The motley Arab crowd which had congregated  were soon dispensed, with much confusion, by the  native police. Tomorrow, we take part in a Tactical  Scheme, so I will turn in now, as it is Reveille at  4.30am, I'll not get too much sleep.  Well, Mother, I hope you are all well & all  relations. Give my kind regards to all enquirers  & tell them that I am grateful for their remembrances  I am in the pink of condition, so am perfectly  happy. I've had no mail this week, but expect it  tomorrow. Well, I'll conclude with the best of  love to all at home & an extra ration for yourself  from your loving son,  Norman