 Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth
Location: Gaba Tepe Gallipoli Peninsular Turkey
Date: 25 July 1915 
Nationality: Australian

Text:  My Dearest Mother & all at Home,  Just a line to let you know  that I am still in the best of health & having a good time. I am pleased to say that I have just received another  nice long letter from you, but so far there is none from  Mab or any papers yet, but I have no doubt that all the  mail is not yet sorted & delivered, so will hope to get them  tomorrow or the next day. Well, as you will see by the same address above,  we have not been driven into the sea, by the Turks, altho'  we go in for a swim every night, but this is purely our  own inclination, altho' they often drive us out of the sea by  the way of 4.5 inch Shrapnel from their guns in the Olive  Groves, but no body minds. Our position is very safe here now & the whole  place is simply bristling with Howitzers & they give the Turks  no peace what ever, & continue to shell their trenches through  the night at irregular intervals & during the day as well. Bomb & Grenade throwing is very much indulged in by  both Turks & our people, but we preponder over them in  this respect also, & so do not give them any peace at all.
I do not think that the turn out here will last  so very long after all. The British & French are gradually  getting closer to us & once they get the Turks over the ridge,  there is a British Gun-boat waiting to make their acquaintance  with 6 inch broadsides. Submarines & Torpoedos are  quite unable to make any impression whatever on this boat.  so she is here to stay. "Busy Bertha" , a small high  velocity gun of the Turks has just opened fire on us  with high explosive shell, but we don't take any notice  of it, as it is only a scheme to try & draw our fire. You will be pleased to know that my gun, 1169,  is again in Action after here second hiding & is patched  up with parts of other damaged guns, but can still  shoot straight & bark as loud as ever. It is a great  relict & where it is returned to Melbourne & the public  see it, they will get an idea what Artillery men are  called on to face. We shall be newly equipped when we  go on to tackle & finish the Germans, which will not be  long, as we were all told something pretty good the other  day by our Colonel. Won't it be great eh, Mother, to "mop up"  the Germans before returning to Australia. We will have our  trip to England after all, so if I get a chance, I will run  out to Gravesend to see the Cole's.  The leading article of the "Argus" which you sent in  your letter, reads very well, & the boys are delighted to think 
that their efforts are appreciated at home.  Every body here wonders what the "stay-at-homes" will  say when our chaps return. They do not realise what an  honour & chance they are missing by not enlisting.  The boys here would not change places with the  healthiest & wealthiest of them. We notice that the  papers are full of Marriages, Engagements Etc, & the  general opinion here is, that the bounders are only  getting married to dodge going to War. The girls  encourage them & it is easily in their power to make  these "coots" enlist, if they only would. I am afraid  that there will be some very hard words passed between  the Soldiers & "Stay-at-homes" when the War is over.  Now for the Home news. Well Mother, it is with great  satisfaction to know that the House has been paid for. I'm  sure it must be great consolation to you & a great relief as well. I was wondering, Mother, if everything goes well, if you  were to sell the House & take a smaller & much newer house  somewhere about, between Middle Park & St Kilda I should say.  It would be much easier & cleaning would be considerably  reduced & we could get somebody to do the work, & you would  be able to take the well earned rest that you should have had  years ago. Don't you think it is a good idea. Our old house is  pretty well "jiggered" now, & it takes no end of labour to keep in  order, altho' no one can say it never looked spotless, & inviting.
Of course, I am thinking of this plan to save labour  & to only have the actual members of our family living, or  perhaps Floss Robbie might be the only exception, as she  would be able to keep Mabel from getting married Etc., eh.  Well anyhow, a nice little 6 Roomed house with an  up to date kitchen & bathroom, & the Ellsworth family inside  whats wrong with it, eh.  Now back again to Turkey Etc., all our Drivers & other  men who are not Gunners, are in Alexandria with the  horses. Braithwaite & Jack Hall are there, too. & so have  not had their baptism of fire yet. I sent a £ to my  Gun lead Driver to amuse himself with & also to send  me some writing materiel & envelopes. To day, by the  mail, I got 6 writing Pads & millions of Envelopes, so  I'll not need the handy piece & envelope which you  sent to me weekly any more, or for the present anyhow.  I suppose you've heard or seen in my previous  letters about Yardley (poor chap) His nerve is quite gone  & will not go near a Guns, so he has had to be transferred  to some other Unit & sent to Alexandria. I spoke to him,  encouraged him, reminded him of the rest of his Subsection, & roused him, & he had a good chance of returning to his  Gun, but "No", he would not come at it, & so he has lost  his chance. I cannot think what his Parents will say  to him, but for goodness sake, don't mention it to them.
Men must be prepared to see things here, & some  very disagreeable ones too, & we have seen them too, but  one must simply look another way & carry on with  the job. Why, when my gun was out of Action the  first time, my sub & myself were sent out burying  soldiers who had been dead for weeks & they don't  half smell either, its alright digging a hole for them, even  tho' the bullets do fly around, but I had to undo their  clothes & search for the Identity disc & Pay book, & the bodies  were that swollen & rotten that their clothes are bursting at the seams. We work with handkerchiefs around our noses & can get a hole deep enough to put him in, and then we hook a couple of drag ropes around his ankles and drag him in & chop his arms in & fill up lively. The stench is simply unbearable when they are moved from where they dropped, & speed at "filling in" is essential. One of my Gunners & myself had a bullet pass right between us as we were both digging in the same hole, so that was close enough, eh.  Well, something more cheerful; Dowsett is getting transferred to Brigade Staff, we hear, as Warrant Officers so promotion has started at last.  You will p be pleased to know that we have had no casualties for a long time, & also to know that our chaps that have been wounded before, are all getting better and 
are itching to get back & join us. Tell Jack Tilton that Jack Heywood has quite recovered & is back in Camp at Alexandria with the others. Also tell him that Gibson & McConville have both arrived here & are attached to the Ammunition Column.  We do fairly well for food here altho' some nice green fresh vegetables would be very pleasant & a nice change, however, we cook a favourite dish of boiled potatoes & onions, mash them up, open a tin of bully beef & mix it all-togeth & fry in a "dixie" lid, & after this, finish up with a tin of preserved fruit, & cocoa to drink.  The fruit & cocoa is not issued to us but bought over at Imbros by some of our chaps who went over there for a short holiday of 4 or 5 days.  I was very pleased to read that Ruperts' foot had got better. Tell him to write to me sometimes, and let me know what class he is in at school & how he is getting on at the Sloyd Class.  I am pleased to know that May Tilton has passed & is coming away; I hope to meet her in my travels.  How are all at Winchelsea? Give them my love & let them know that I often think of them all.  Percy Wells is still with the Battery, & was here with us for a week or two at first, but he was sent back with the horses to Alexandria, as they were not wanted.
Innoculation against Cholera is still being carried out extensively on our troops & we have all just had the second injection performed on us.  I say, Mother, if there are any wealthy relations you can think of in England, just let me know, & I'll look them up, when we go there, & see if I can't persuade them to remember us "Kindly".  Respirators & Gas helmets have been issued to every one of the troops here, in case the Turks use gas on us.  We don't half look characters in our helmets either, doing Gas drill, but they are positively effective against asphyxiating Gasses, so we don't mind what we look like.  Did you get my last letter? If so, please don't forget to send along the little "medicine chest" as it will be very welcome, altho' we are all in fairly good health, but sometimes we feel "liverish" for a day or two, & this makes us feel that we want a little pick-me-up.  I got a letter from Ruby Davidsons father telling me of her being very seriously ill with Measles, but is now getting much better. Did I tell you before that the Davidson family sent me a gold "Swastika" to wear so that good-luck would attend me always; well anyhow I wear it around my neck on the cord of my identity disc & it is quite an object of great interest to the big Indian Mountain Battery Gunners, who always look at it.
Reading matter is very scarce here & any old paper is eagerly grabbed up & read even tho' it is months old.  Speaking of the comforts, Etc, which the women folk are making at home for the soldiers at the front. We have not had a single extra of any description outside our ordinary rations since we came on Active service, so, who are getting these comforts, Etc, don't you think it is worth making a few enquiries & a few questions might be asked for the Members of Parliament to answer. I expect it is the chaps who stop back at the Base who get all the luxuries & no or very little work to do. The lazy "cows" are too darned lazy to send our mail along regular.  There are a lot of fat jobs sticking out at these Base Depots, & all the wasters which hang around are always given the preference for them, & the poor chaps who do the fighting get nothing in this respect. (Look out now)  I am told that I am to be promoted to the rank of Battery Sergeant Major & to be transferred to the Ammunition Column. Of course, the promotion is alright, but leaving the dear old 4th Battery hurts very much, but they told me I would simply have to go or I would not get promotion. It means that I will be with the Column until a Battery job is vacant.  If I refuse this, I am told that they will not be in too much of a hurry to offer me the chance again, so 
I think I'll avail myself of the opportunity, but at the same time I'll keep a sharp look out for one of those good easy fat jobs (14/- per day) that are kicking about.  If my promotion is confirmed, then my pay will  be 12/6 per day instead of 10/6 as I get at present, so I'll probably draw another 6' per day here for myself & the other 1/6' can go to you. This will give me a little more to spend in England & France where we are going to, in probably a fortnights time as Colonel Johnston told us on Wednesday last. A new division who is relieving us, is now at Lemnos & the Howitzers are doing all the work here now; These are part of Kitcheners New Army. Well, I have quite a lot of back pay to draw. We have not been paid since the 6th May, so I should have a fair purse to draw when we get back to Alexandria and I have £2 still in my belt, & I've just reconed up in my pay book that up to 28th of this month (July) I've got owing to me £10..15.0 & by the time I get to England it will increase, I should say, up to £20 so this will give me a fair start, eh. That is, adding the 6' extra on after I get the job.  My pay book says now that I've drawn £24/12/6 up till the 4th May from 4th December, so you can reckon up & see if I am right. We expect  to stay in Alexandria for a month or so & refit, & there is no place to spend ones money there like Cairo, so Im righto. 
This letter is long on account of several reasons.  First, we don't do any shooting, altho' we are always standing by, & we have 500 rounds of ammunition per gun, but the country here is no good for 18 pounder shrapnel & as Kitcheners Howitzers have arrived from England, & are in position, they are the only people who can hurt the entrenched Turks, & they keep them going all day & best part of the night. Secondly, Ive got tons of writing paper; Thirdly I've got a fountain pen; & Fourthly Ive got the time & inclination, so I hope Ive not bored you. I hope the public will not think we've gone on strike, but the British & French have had a much harder job than they expected, & it is not the least bit of good us pushing on until they come up, & not only that, but we have no battleships here to bombard the place, as they all cleared out when the "Triumph" & "Majestic" were sunk, altho' now, they a fixing a false concrete bottom on some old Gun boats & sending them out, & submarines cannot make the least impression on them. In the recent tests held, one of these boats was struck by 6 different torpoedoes & could not sink her, so these will be of great assistance when they arrive. Also some of the flat bottomed Monitors with 14 inch howitzers have arrived & these are for the forts on the Asiatic side. 
Our Australian boys here are funny, they fight in short nicker pants (turned inside out on account of lice) & a pair of boots & a hat. Nothing else on, no shirt or singlet or socks, & they are burnt black with the hot sun. The Navy beach party cannot make them out at all; They simply stare at them in amazement. The Indian Gunners also regard them with a certain amount of curiosity, because they are always dressed up in all their "rigout".  I must tell you now how my Gun got put out of action the second time, as this letter is not going thro' the censor. It was in the roofed in Pit & 3 gunners were sleeping under it, & at 4.15am one day, a big 8 inch shell from the Maidos fort came thro' the roof & hit the shield & right gun wheel & burst. How the men escaped with their lives, goodness only knows, but they were asleep when it lobbed, & staggered out blindly into the trench, practically unhurt, altho' suffering with concussion. I rushed up into the pit & the place was in a terrible mess. Blankets waterproof sheets, mens clothing, & smoke, & fumes simply predominated. As soon as the fumes got out, I could see that the Gun & carriage were simply knocked rotten.  The wheel was smashed to splinters, the shield 
was torn to ribbons, the axle bent like wire & the trail & trunnions have been strained; It was out of Action for a fortnight, but Fred Conradi, our fitter sergeant, got to work & fixed it up, & it is barking as loud as ever now. (Poor old 1169, Little Liz, her second wallop.) All our Guns have great gaping holes in the shields where shells have come through, but none have had such a bad time as my gun, so I'm not only very proud of it, but it will be simply treasured when it gets back to Melbourne. I would like to say, now that I have the opportunity, something about the earlier events of the Landing of the Australians here; First of all, too much credit has been given to the Light Horse, who did not land here until 3 weeks after the position was won. Secondly, The work of the New Zealanders can in no way be compared  with that of the Australian Brigades. Thirdly why has there been no mention of the work of the Field Artillery. We have been here since the first day (25th April) & have done a tremendous amount of shooting & most of our guns have fired over 3,000 rounds each, & we have lost some of our bravest men in Action, yet we are not mentioned. We have put most of the Turks guns out of Action with direct hits. 
One day, the 4th Battery were ordered to open fire on the Turks trenches at 1 o'clock & keep it up. For over an hour, all the Turks Guns concentrated on to our two Guns, & yet we were not allowed to switch our fire on to them, even tho' we could see them, & not another Gun in our Division opened fire on the Turks, but stood & watched the unequal fight. One of our Guns was hit at last & the layer was completely disembowelled & the top of his head blown clean off, whilst the No 2 of the detachment had his left leg so badly shattered that it has since been amputated. We were told the next day that the Battery had been recommended for Gallantry & that two D.C.Ms had been awarded to the Battery. The men were chosen who were to get them, & now we have been told that, "no D.C.Ms are available, but their good work had been recorded". (Rotten isn't it, eh.) When our Infantry first landed, almost all of their Officers were shot down, & yet the men went on despite the fact they had no one to lead them, & they won; Their casualties after the first 3 days fighting was over 13,000 : not 1300. Hows that eh, out of a force of 30,000. What would the people of Australia have said if the number 
had been cabled out telling the truth, instead of 5 died of wounds, 21 missing Etc. Then after this, the 2nd Infantry Brigade (Victoria) were withdrawn from here, & taken down to Cape Helles in Destroyers, & given a job to do there that no other soldiers would do & they did it, but what was the cost, 1200 lost in 2 hours, (5pm till 7pm) Everybody marvelled down there at them, but our Boys can carry any position here if they are asked to, but now, the Staff wont let them do any big jobs, as they have lost "too many fine soldiers" as they say, but our boys say "they will not be far away when there is something doing". The Turks use a very peculiar bullet, it is very sharp pointed, has a thin coat of nickel & as soon as it  touches anything, the nickel coat bursts & flys off, & what is inside makes a nasty hole in anyone. Sometimes, I take a walk up into the Infantry Trenches, & what a maze there are too; Every few yards apart is a machine gun & further off is a sharpshooter with a Periscope Rifle, this allows him to shoot at any thing over the other side without exposing himself. It is a splendid invention & was though out by an Australian Infantryman, who has since been sent to England to improve it 
In the trenches one can hear the bullets lob with a very vicious "thud" against the sand bags in front & it gives one an idea what it is like to be up close to an enemy Rifle, of whom are only 3 & 400 yards from our Trenches The Japanese have lent our troops 4 Trench Mortars, which are just like a miniature cannon & it fires an explosive which has the destructive power equivalent to a 6 inch shell. The Japs lent them to us on the condition that "we made no attempt to find out what the bursting charge consists of", & we are strictly carring out their wish. It is remarkable to see our chaps when they see a Turkish bomb coming thro' the air, they stand & watch it coming right towards them & wait for it to burst, & yet make no attempt to dodge it in any way at all, & simply regard it as they would a cracker. It seems to fascinate one to see them coming thro' the air at night. I forgot to tell you, I went thro all the underground tunnels which the Engineers have dug under the Turks trenches, & they reach & wind in all directions, & when I was down one, I could hear the Turks digging & scraping in their trenches When the time is ripe, our Engineers are are going to put a big enough charge of Guncotton in each "Sap" & "up goes the unspeakable Turk", then the Artillery gets to work with time Shrapnel & catch them on the run. Oh' about going to England; Colonel Johnston told Major Phillips to tell his men that, "we would not take part in the big battle that is shortly coming off, as the new English & Scottish howitzer batteries which arrived here shortly, (there are 6 batteries of them, 5 inch, & throw a 60 pound lyddite shell) would do all the work, but we would have a stand by to catch the Turks in the open. After this we were to be withdrawn, go to Alexandria refit, le then go on to England & then on to France; This is the honest truth, he said, (Are we down hearted?) Well, Mother, dear, I must draw this long epistle to a close; I think I've said more than I ought to in places, but the truth is always welcome. I hope everybody is well. Give my kind regards to all kind enquirers. My best love to all relations & an extra ration all around to the Ellsworth family (may they live for ever) & not forgetting Flos Robbie, Jack Tilton, Miss Taylor, & any others I've missed Believe me to be Your affectionate Son 
Norman (always merry & bright)
about the Landing at Gallipoli July 25th 1915.



P.S. one of our Australian Light Horse  boys said, after the last bayonet charge to Gen Birdwood  Give me a good stock whip & decent fast pony & I'll clear the Peninsular in 5 minutes /  Tell George not to be bashful, come along. I'll keep a look out for him. 