Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth
Location: No 1 Boyton Camp Codford Wilts England
Regiment: 1st Divisional Artillery Date: 12 February 1917
Nationality: Australian

Text:
 My Dearest Mother, & all at Home, I have at last received the long-looked for parcels. How can I thank you enough for them?  They are "bonny", & the contents worth £ to me. Everything was in tip-top order, and the leather vest so just wonderful, & it just knocks this kind of weather rotten. As you already know, it is the coldest weather for years, & the water is frozen everywhere, - even in the fire buckets in the huts, & we have to light fires under the troughs to give the horses a drink, & so you can see that the vest was sorely tried, but came out "trumps". - I would not be without it for worlds. - and the shirts, singlets, & other goods, - why it is wonderful to be wearing Australian made clothing once more, & I feel as happy & as proud as a King. I have an abundance of clothes now, so please don't worry on my account, & please thank everyone connected with the parcel, very much for me. I have written to-night to Aunt Hannah, & posted C/o of "Tango", as I do not know her address, so kindly forward it on for me. I am expecting some Australian Mail 
in the morning, but as "Fritz" has gone  "dotty" with his Submarines again, goodness  only knows when the mail will really get  in, - if ever it does get in.  They are just  crowding guns and shells into France lately,  and on the Western front there is no room for  any more, & Lloyd George (Heaven bless him)  has got all sorts of contrivances for killing  "Fritz", & early next month the fun will begin  & I must be in it or I'll go 'dotty'.  Theres no  doubt about Ll George, - he is the champion  of the Empire, - he doesn't say to the  Generals. "you'll have this, or you shan't have   that", - he just asks them what they need,  & he gives it them with interest. - He is  a wonder. May he live for ever.  I, & many  other Australians here are quite satisfied  with the Labour party, - & those damn  I. W. Ws, & it won't be well for them when  the boys do come home. I hope they don't  call themselves Australians. People here  in England are saying some nasty things  about them, & their attitude is changing very   fast towards Australians thro' them. I for   one, should like to know the man who will  vote for Austey again, or any of his gang.  Well, dear Mother, I do hope you are  all well. Give my love to all, & tell them  that I am well, so hoping to see you  all before the end of this year.  I am with fondest love  Your loving Son,  Norman. 


116th HOWITZER BATTERY 12 February 1917. Ist DIVL. ARTILLERY, AUS. No. 1 Boyton Camp. Codford; Wills. England. 