Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth
Location: Lowland Convalescent Hospital Date: 9 November 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:    Dearest Mother & all at Home,  Just a line to let you know that I am still progressing  favourably & as you can see by the  above address, that they have moved  me. It is only 100 yards or so from the  other hospital I was in, but we have  been sent here to await the boat &  also to make room for other Enteric  patients as they are pressed for room.  I missed the Mauretania after  all, through them changing the Drs  just when Scott had sorted out his  patients who were to go away & the  new chap said that he did not  want any patients sent away for  at least a week so that he might  become acquainted with their condition 
so this settles us for the “Mauretania”  Then we were told that Australian  Enterics don’t go to England, but over  to Alexandria & then home to Australia  & then when we got here, we were told  that we were being sent to England  on the “Aquitania” a sister ship  to the “Luisitania” & she is expected  in here to-day. Of course she is an  hospital boat & can carry 1700  patients, but who to believe as  to where we are going, I don’t know.  Some say that Enterics are  sent home, others say that they  go to England & then used for  home defence, & others say that no  Enterics are allowed to go to the  Front again. The latter was  told me by an R. A. M. C. sergeant  so if he is right, then I’ve finished With Johnnie Turk, but goodness  only knows what they will do  with us, anyhow I am going away   for a long spell somewhere so  the Colonel of the 18th Stationary  hospital told me, & everything  points to the “Aquitania” & either  Malta or England. If I get the  chance of coming back home to  Melbourne, I’ll take it, you bet,  & if they should do this, I’ll try  & cable to you & let you know  what boat I am coming on.   I have about £25 owing to me  so I can draw this as soon as  I get to a base depot, so am  flush for money.   I hope you are not worrying  about me. I have been in  Hospital 6 weeks, & am feeling 
very weak which is only to be expected,  but other-wise I’m feeling quite  fit, so please don’t worry, as I  may be coming home soon (who knows)  How are you all at home?  I am always thinking of you all.  How I long to see you all. I only  hope the time is not far distant when  I’ll be back with you all again  I have had no mail for a long  & have only been able to write home  so would be obliged if you would  give any of my friends news of me  & explain why I haven’t written.  Best love to all relations Etc &  to dear Mab, Rupert, Chas, George,  Floss an extra ration & a double  whack for your dear self  from your loving son  Norman.  A..Merry Xmas to all.