  Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth
Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt Date: 12 March 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:    Dearest Mother, Mab, & all at Home.  As we only get our  Mail delivered once a fortnight now, I get 2 letters  or 3 from home each delivery, so you can see how  we look forward to every second Wednesday.  I also got a letter from George by this Mail  (his first) & was pleased to get it & to read of his holiday  in Creswick. Peter Moorfield of the Mint also  dropped me a short note too, in answer to some  Post Cards which I had sent him. The chaps at the  Mint are very stingy with their letters, altho' I have  written several times to them & I have only got one  letter of one page from them until now. Dave  Watson, the policeman up there, is the only one worth  writing to & as my time for writing letters is very  limited, I am afraid that I will have to put them  on the "Debarred List" as we call it. Considering I  am the only one from the Mint away with the  Expeditionary Force, I am a little surprised that  some of the boys haven't had time to drop me  a line or two, but I mustn't growl anymore, as  long as I get letters from you & Mab, I don't care a hang. 
I am very pleased to read by your welcome letters that you are all well, especially yourself, & it is also good to know that Rupert is quite well, for I know what extra work it is to you whilst he is ill. Mab tells me that she spent an enjoyable time at Middle Park. She generally enjoys herself wherever she goes & Good Luck to her too. Holidays are made for enjoying oneself I often think of Floss Robbie, Chrissie Watson & a host of other friends, & I am sorry that I am quite unable to find time to write to them all, but I hope you will assure them that I haven't forgotten them I will write home to you when it is possible, every week, & I hope Mab will be contented with this letter too, as a sergeant has tons of work to do & it is difficult to get time to write. I will drink to your good health, fortune, & long life, Mother, on the 16th of this month, & hope that the Table Centre which I sent to you per Registered Post, will reach you in time for your Birthday. Be sure & have a good feed of Onion Suffing on that day. I want you to go into town & have a good "blow out" & booked seats at the Theatre at my expense & Mab too, so don't forget & mind you do, because I'll find out if you don't. Not forgetting oysters & Flounder afterwards of course. 
I hope by this time that all of Beans dirty, filthy, reports of Bad conduct has been quite cleared by now & our fair name upheld. I cannot tell you what indignation and wrath was caused amongst all ranks here, it eclipsed everything & nearly caused a mutiny in Camp, & his recall to Australia was howled for in every lines. Scores of letters were written to Members of Parliament & other influential gentlemen by different Messes & it is our earnest hope that the general Public are quite clear on the subject now. Captain Bean has done more to besmirch Australias good name, than the whole 40,000 Troops in Egypt. Since the papers from Australia reached us, he has caused a memo in Divisional Orders to be read to the troops, a quibbling, shuffling, paltry excuse to us that "his message has been misunderstood" at Melbourne. Now what do you think of him now,? Is it any wonder we ask for his recall. As I said before, & I say again now, that the  conduct of the Troops, generally, is exemplary & when we are in Cairo on leave, we can walk about just the same as any other soldier & command respect. Any sign, however small, of drunkeness or rowdiness is instantly dispelled. 
I am sorry to tell you that we have had an unfortunate event in our Battery. Our Quarter Master Sergeant, who is an ex Imperial man, imbibed rather too freely of the "cup that cheers" & incurred the displeasure of the Commanding Officer who ordered him to be placed under Arrest. One Sergeant has to be detached to take charge of him all the time, so we took it in turns, & what a disagreeable job it is too, because we have to escort him every where he goes, Canteen excepted of course; He was remanded to the Brigade Commander who remanded him to a District Court Martial. The Court Martial found him Guilty of the Charge of Drunkeness & Reduced him to the Ranks as Gunner & transferred him to the Column. It was a dramatic scene one morning when the Finding & Sentence was read. The whole Battery was paraded & formed up in 3 sides of a square & he was marched up, under Escort with hat off, facing the Parade & the sentence read. He faced it magnificently & never flinched. I'll never forget the scene if I live to be a 1,000. Well, Mum, I am in the best of health & so are all the boys & are only too sorry we haven't had a scrap yet, but there are strong indications that we leave Egypt on the 20th of this month. 
but of course, we don't know our destination. We Reveille at 5am now & parade in full marching order at 6am. & do our manoeuvres before the sun gets up properly & return to Camp at 10am. & this finishes our days work, except for midday & 4pm stables. The 3rd Reinforcements arrived in Camp last Sunday, but I haven't seen any one I know yet. Yardley gets the "Table Talk" by each mail & the page which contains the week end Campers at the seaside usually comes in for a very scathing criticism. Cannot somebody give them a bump about stopping at Home enjoying themselves, whilst others are away trying to render the Empire some assistance. I only wish they could see some of the advertisements in Cairo about Enlisting, it would do them good, or rather, make them think. The weather here is getting hotter & dustier each ado day & the flies are the curse of Egypt, they are the most persistent of any winged tribe here. It is no wonder that disease is rampant here, as they are the carriers of all kinds of microbes. Mosquitoes are troublesome at night, too. 
There is one thing here that annoys us more than any thing else & that is, All the shopkeepers, etc, are out to beat us for all they know: Nothing is too dear for the  Australian! He has plenty of money to spend: This is the popular sentiment amongst the Egyptian Trades people: Of course the Australian pays up & doesn't grumble. We went into Cairo last Wednesday & spent the whole day on Leave. First, we went & had our Photo's taken, singly, then the 4 of us together. Fred Conradi, Jack Hall, Harry Braithwaite & myself. Jack is going in for them tomorrow, so if he gets them, I'll send them in this letter. They are Post Card size & the chap is giving us a Paris Panel each for nothing. After this we went & inspected the Railway Workshops & there, were greatly interested in all we saw. These people made the new portions of the gun shields for us, to protect us from attacks from aircraft. It is a great benefit to us as it gives us 3 times more protection than before. The guns & wagons look more like a travelling circus than Artillery as the paint is all the gaudy bright colours we could slap on. It just looks like as if some kids got to  work & spilt a lot of tins of paint over them. 
At a distance, one cannot tell what they are & it is hard to believe that our equipment is so inconspicuous through this idea. I am sending along several other Photos for you to see. One is my Corporal (Will Pettersson) from Windsor. No one could have rendered me such assistance & loyalty towards the working of my subsection as he has done. He is tireless in his efforts & is very popular with everyone. The other is Tiny Salkeld (6 feet 7 inches) one of my Gunners : A good soldier & an honest chap in all his dealings, in addition, he is a very witty & the best of good natured fellow. Then there is Jack Halls photo. I can't say more, than that he is one of the most desirable companions I have got. He is always of a witty disposition. Now Mother dear, I must close, hoping everyone is in the best of good health. Give my kind regards to all kind enquirers & my best love to all at Home & elsewhere. I am always thinking of you all & also Aunts & Uncles, so tell them that I will always think of them. Tell Rupert that we still have rides on the donkeys. Once more with the best of love. I remain your loving Son, Norman.

Please don't think that I have grown a moustache, for I simply hate the idea & would not even if I could Norman.


Charlie Sheldrake wishes to be  remembered to Mab  If you have any old weeklies  or magazines, I should feel  obliged for them, to you.  Norm 