Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth
Location: Anzac Gaba Tepe Gallipoli Peninsula Date: 11 September 1915 
Nationality: Australian

Text:    Dearest Mother & all at Home,  Just a line to let  you know that I received another budget of letters  from "Home Sweet Home" today, & my joy knows no  bounds as you can easily imagine, but so far  the parcel has not arrived, but I have no doubt  that it will come alright, as the parcels get  here usually a day or two later than the letters.  You say that you heard we have to pay on  parcels we get here; This is not the case & we have   always got everything alright I had to pay nothing.  I am glad to tell you that those of us who have  been here since April, are going on a short holiday  of a fortnight, tomorrow, to Lemnos, & we are  very thankful too, as some of us, or nearly all  are feeling "run down" somewhat, & the change  will do us good. We do not expect to be relieved  until the new Artillery Brigades arrive, but we  will have no difficulty of carrying on until  they come, but at the same time, we are eagerly  looking forward to being relieved. 
I suppose you got a surprise in my last letter to  know that I intended to apply for a transfer to  the D. A. C., but so far I haven't done much in  the matter, & I find that there may be some  difficulty in getting this, so I don't care very much  if nothing comes of it. Anyhow, I am quite full up  of the 4th & most of the others are too, at the way  things are going on. Since our Major went away  for a holiday (Officers have no difficulty in this  respect) things have been simply disgraceful,  & the other "Officers"? are promoting their "fancy" men,  hence Moon being made Sgt Major, whilst the other  appointments are anything but satisfactory, so you  can quite see why we are anxious to get into another  Unit. Dowsett has applied for a transfer to the  British Field Artillery, as he is too disgusted with  the way things are going on. I have been transferred  temporarily to the Ammunition Column to act as  Sergeant Major, all their Sergeants have got other  good jobs or Commissions, & I have been sent  down to do the dirty work of clearing up the  Office work, a thing I know nothing about  & in the present state of health I am in, I   don't feel equal to doing the job, & I have told  the Colonel that, if I don't have a spell soon  that I'll simply bust up altogether, so he said  that if I went away for this holiday, I would probably lose the chance of being made  Column Sgt Major, so I told him I would rather  forfeit the Sgt Majors job & take the holiday, so  I will probably be sent back the the Battery  after my holiday. Pretty rough, isn't it, eh.  However I'm not growling, Mum, & don't let  it worry you, because I may finish up by  being made a good old Trumpeter again, anyhow  I would be better off if I was, & I would be  relieved of the responsibility of looking after others.  There is one thing certain, I can never do office work,  & the Column Sgt Major does nothing else, & you know  that "Returns, Reports, Accounts, Bookkeeping, Figures,  Etc, Etc, are not in my line, & never was, & never will  be, so I am certain I do not want to get this job.  Why you would have your son Norman as gray as a   badger in a week if he did take it on, so I'm  simply keeping my eyes open for "something to turn up"  The C.O. down here advised me to try and get  an extended holiday when I get to Lemnos, & to  see a Dr there & let him know how I feel, so  that was decent of him, wasn't it.  Continue to address my letters to 4th Battery  no matter what Unit I am attached to for the  present, because I will be with the 4th on my  return.  Well, Mum, lets change the subject. I say  I hope there is something in that advertisement for the Ellsworths to communicate with a London  solicitor about something to our advantage. If it is  true, then I will apply for my discharge & tear off  to England & transact the necessary business.  Am glad to know that Jack Tilton is coming away, it  will make a man of him. Will also keep a look  out for May Tilton too. I suppose she is here somewhere.  What unit is Ernie Watson coming away with? don't  say the Army Medical Corps for goodness sake. He  should be in a good bayonet charge to really enjoy it.  Everything is much the same here otherwise as when  I last wrote, still in the same position, & the  usual rifle fire & bomb throwing at night and a  little artillery fire by day, monotonous isn't it.  Tell Rupert I am very glad to get his nice letter  & that he enjoyed the Party, & I hope he is a good boy to  Grandma & gets her messages nicely. How is he getting on at  school ? Tell Mab, she is a sport for bringing home  the wounded chap to dinner. (Just like her.)  How is Floss Robbie? give her my love & tell her  to look after Mab alright for me (Cheeky aint I)  How is Charls family? Give them my love. Also  how is Aunt Carrie & family, Aunt Hannah, all of  Winchelsea, Lacks, Ellsworths at Ballarat, Mr &  Mrs Joe Avery & others who I've not mentioned.  Give my love to them all & tell them I've not forgotten  them. Tell George to write soon, & I hope he is   well. Mrs & Ruby Davidson continue to show   me great kindness. They send me boot laces, writing materiel & are now knitting  socks for me. "Bless their kindness, they can't do enough for me, it seems. I really don't know how to thank them for it all.  Well Mother dear, I think I've told  you all the news this week so will close with the fondest love from  your loving son Norman (Hope your eyes are well).
Tell George not to forget to  send me along a Pocket   Flash Lamp & spare Battery  please, & I'll settle up  with him on my return  Norman
