
Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth
Location: Mena Camp Cairo  Egypt
Date: 16 March 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:

 (Your birthday 16/03/1915.)  My Dearest Mother & all at Home I am pleased to tell you that I've got another letter, each, from you and Mab, and I can assure you that it is better than getting a change of food for dinner. I might tell you that when a mail comes in, rumours fly all around the Camp as to the numbers of Bags contained in the mail & it some times reaches the tall figures of "Hundreds of Bags", but anyhow meals are very little cared for on Mail day as every one in the Mess goes into his corner, lies down, & reads his letters over & over again & the Mess Orderly gets that wild at us not coming to dinner, that he calls us all the names he can lay his tongue to, & it generally ends up by him clearing all the "stuff" away. We don't mind this in the least, because we begin to discuss the contents of each others letters & papers. Yardley generally gets the "Table Talk" & we fly to look at the page of photo's of week end Campers at the Seaside, tell them off, then court martial them. Of course, they generally come in for a pretty solid round of abuse so richly deserved.
The Chap beat me after all as the Cabinet  turned out to be a P.C. in a sort of frame.
I am sending it to you by this mail.
Tommy Goodall gets the "Leader", "Weekly Times", Etc, & the other boys get other papers that interest us for a day or two. I hope you got my Photo's alright. What do you think of them? Is it any wonder I hate getting them done, however, thats over thank goodness & I hope I will not have to go through that performance again. I just got a dozen & 1 Cabinet (chucked in)(which I haven't got yet) & you are the only people I have sent any to, the others, I had to give one each to all the Mess, so that finished them. I will send the Cabinet to you when I get it & Yardley has gone in to get it to-day, so you can do what you like with it. I am sending it to you per Registered Post, a Souvenir of Egypt, showing the different kinds of work carved on the statues of former Kings & Queens. All the different designs represent incidents of the deceaseds life, so one wants to examine them very minutely. I am also sending Rupert some Post Cards by this mail & hope that he likes them. You told me that he got my other cards & took them to school. We are all in the best of health except Jack Hall, who has just been taken to Hospital, ill with Tollic Tonsillitis & he looks pretty miserable. 
Some more Australian Toops have arrived here & we are all pleased with the appearance & style of them all; They are quite welcome here. I am not surprised a bit to know that George has caught the enlisting craze : I knew that he would want to come sooner or later. I hope he gets his Commission, altho' he will have to know something of Map reading & Field sketching. I only wish he was here now, because he would understand the mysteries and history of this place more than me, (being better read in these things). I have not the least desire for a Commission & am perfectly content with my lovely little gun & subsection, which I can assure you, will do all that is asked of them. We have been doing different kinds of Parades lately & if it will not bore you too much, I will give you a brief description of this weeks work. It is far more interesting to us as it is such a change to the horrible dust storms in the Desert which we have to tolerate. One day, we Reveille at 4.45am, get a cup of tea & 2 biscuits, then "hook in" the teams & go out & do some manoeuvres & occupations of positions in which the Subalterns were exercised in the work of Battery Commander & Yardley & myself were busying ourselves in bringing the Battery into Action, & I am pleased to say that as far as we were concerned, our work was successfully carried out. We returned to Camp at 10am, watered & fed the horses, then had breakfast. By this time, our belts were pretty well tightened right up, but Steak, Chops & eggs soon rectified this. We only had to parade then for midday stables & 4pm stables. This is not bad as we do our work before the sun gets too Hot. Next day, however, we Reveille at 6am, & at 9am, went out with Guns & wagons, up to the Pyramids, where all half broken down walls & an underground city, (or the remains I should say) & the Major made us take the guns & vehicles over the roughest part & in places, we had to unhook the Teams and bodily lift the limber and gun over a 5 feet stone wall, hook in again & and go at a sand & loose stone wall at the Full Gallop. All my horses & men faced this hard work with the greatest of pluck & energy. Whilst lifting our limber on to a stony shelf 4 feet high, we had the unique experience of getting wet through in 2 minutes & thoroughly dry again in 5 minutes. It rained for the 2nd time since we landed in Egypt. To morrow, we have to go down to the Canal & swim ourselves, & horses across then float our Guns & wagons across by using barrels. This is interesting work & all the boys like it as it is such a contrast to dragging through the Desert day after day. Next day we have to take all our War Equipment over a Pontoon Bridge built by our Engineers. Our other performances this week consists of going up & down slopes of 45 degrees fully horsed & manned, so its a case for the Gunners hanging on for dear life. We have had our new peak caps issued to us as they just arrived from England & have different cloth to thatose of the Australian caps. Of course, we look a lot of "gooeys" in them at present, because everybody wears them a different way to anybody else. Its very funny now as all the boys talk to each other like a lot of "Cockneys" I am sending by this letter a Photo of my crack Bombardier (Ronald Cavalier of Malvern 19 years of age) He is admitted by everybody to be the smartest Bombardier in the Brigade & he made a name for himself by being the first man to Qualify in the very stiff Gun Laying Tests recently held. He is another of my boys who, by his willing & loyal assistance, has helped to make my Subsection a most successful one. In the Photo, the Gun Layers Badge is to be seen just above his stripe (L for Layer). I am pleased to tell you that I am in the  very best of health & the pink of condition and that my "bingy" is gradually decreasing. You will see by my Photo that I have no moustache & it is my strong intention not to grow one, so you can rest assured on that point. I am simply in my Glory & altho' we are getting a little tired of this place, we are still a very happy lot, even tho' all the Tradesmen still charge us exhorbitant prices for everything. The advertisements & signs painted on every shop in Egypt are quite correct, "Special Prices for Australian Soldiers". (Twice the price is the rule). I hope that the Australian Public is quite convinced by now, that Captain Bean is not worthy of being an Australian. Several English papers such as the "Times" "Daily Mirror" & other big journals have sent Press representatives out to Egypt to have a look at us & we all feel highly flattered by their comments on the Australian Soldier in Egypt.  I am glad to know that everybody at home is so well. I cannot say what joy it gives me to get letters from Home. So long as I get a letter from you and Mab, I don’t care a hang if I don’t get any others. I hope Miss Taylor is well. Give her my kind regards & thank her for her kind enquiries. Tell her that the two blue calico (or something else) bags which she also kindly made for me, are still in use & are amongst 
the handiest articles I have brought from Melbourne. I am glad to know that Jack Tilton is going to  have a shot for the Contingent. I should think he would have a very good chance, only for his age. I can’t imagine how any unmarried man above  the age of 21, who has no encumbrances whatever, can resist enlisting for the War. Personally, if I had stayed at home, I would never have been able to hold my head up & look any decent girl in the face. Surely everyone must realise that the Empire is going thro’ a Crisis it has never gone thro’ before, & that every one is expected to do his duty now. I hope Mr Algie can fix George up alright & I also hope Mrs Algie is quite well by now. Give my kind regards to both Mr, Mrs & Belle Algie. I often think of all relations so don’t let them think I’ve forgotten them. Well, Mother dear, I’ll close now till next week so with fondest love to all at Home & else- where & an extra ration for yourself I remain. Your loving Son,
Norman 

I hope you had that “blow out” on your birthday that I said you were to have.  All the boys in the Mess drank your health & wish you a Many Happy Returns of the Day.

look on the back of this page)
Ps  Give my love to Floss N.G.E. 
I met Bert Handley tonight in the Sergeants Canteen he is looking fine. 