
Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth
Location: Gaba Tepe Gallipoli Peninsular Turkey
Date: 12 July 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text


Dearest Mother & all at Home, Just a line to let you know that I am still in the best of health & am sticking to it, despite the fact it so getting a little monotonous through being in the one place for so long, but there is sure to be something doing shortly, so we will see plenty of fun I suppose. Another Mail came in yesterday but so far I have not got any from you or Mab by this one, but I have no doubt that the rest of it will be delivered by tomorrow or the next day, so will live in hopes. How are you all at Home? How I long to see you all again, & when I do there will be a great wagging of tongues, for I will have enough to tell you, to make me quite unpopular. Some of the things we have seen are quite romantic, what with Battleships bombarding, Torpoedo Destroyers tearing about all over the place, Aeroplanes & Bi planes & Sea planes by the dozens, some dropping Bombs, others observing for the Gunboats, why It doesn't seem like war at all. Would you believe me when I tell you, that I have been here every day since the 25th of April & I haven't seen a Turk, dead or alive, yet, that is to say, not closely, of course I have seen them in the distance moving about on the sky-line, but I have not been
close enough to see what colour they are, but I suppose that before long, we will see hundreds of them as prisoners. There is a big battle on down below at Cape Helles & Achi Baba has been getting spots knocked off it by the Allies War Boats & their Field Artillery as well, & they are still at it "hammer & tongs" & after the bombarding has ceased, I suppose the usual Infantry "blaguard" rush will take place & then there will be a lot of dead Turks to bury. We keep the Turks up here pretty lively, & give them little Artillery bombardments every now & then, & plenty of machine gun & rifle fire to warm them up & to make them waste their ammunition. Reliable prisoners captured from the Turks say that they are not over blessed with an abundance of Shells & Cartridges, so this looks all the healthier for us. I was wondering. Mother, if you could send one a little parcel containing, some "Asperin Tabloids", & also some "Mix Vomica" & also some thing for "Diarrhoea". Just a little of each will do as it all helps to keep a man fit. Diarrhoea is just a little prevalent amongst our chaps, due, no doubt, to drinking so much water, but I am pleased to say that I have only been off colour one day since I landed here, so you see I'm quite alright altho' it may come in handy someday. Is it true that recruiting has stopped both in England & in Australia, if it has, then it is a very good sign.

Next day. Well mother dear, I am pleased to tell you that the mail so in & I got 2 from Mab, 1 from you & 1 from Mr Davidson, who tells me that Ruby has been down with Measles, but is quite alright again. I cannot tell you what joy it gives me to get letters from you and Mab, & I don't care a hang if nobody else doesn't write. I read your letters over & over again so as not to miss anything. I also got two "Table Talks", & several other papers from anynon annonymous senders. I am very sorry to read that Charlie is still out of work, but hope ere this, he has a permanent job. As I write now, a Turkish gun, firing high explosive shell is firing on us, & 2 batteries of field guns & 1 of howitzer is "taking him on" & giving him some "hurry up" too. I am sorry to tell you that Yardley has gone back & will probably go to Australia immediately. He has not been the success we had hoped for, bad luck. We go for a swim every night & thoroughly enjoy ourselves. Thousands are always in swimming & the physique of our men is simply great; Truly they are a body of athletes. I haven't got the parcel of clothing by this mail, but it will sure to come; We got innoculated against Cholera to-day, so hope this will keep us fit. The boys didn't mind it a bit. Well, Mother, don't forget to send along the little parcel of medicine please, also something for prickly heat rash on the body, which causes me to scratch myself. Will close now hoping you are all in the best of health, the same as I am I am your loving son Norman.

Don't be afraid to confine the subjects in your letters, they are not censored. Ask Mab to drop Nell Wheeler a line for me, as I've not much time for letter writing or have I the materiel. 67 Argyle St St Kilda.

P. S. Young Prosser of whom I told you in my last, letter has been wounded again & sent to Malta & to be operated on.
