  Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth
Location: Mena Camp Cairo Eqypt Date: 29 January 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text: 
   Dearest Mother & all at Home.  Just a line to let you know  that I received several more letters of earlier dates & I  think that I have received the lot now. Your latest  letters told me of news of poor old "Binnso" having Diptheria.  I can't imagine how he developed this horrible complaint  unless he contracted it from some kiddie at school.  I think your decision of sending him to Fairfield a  wise one, as there can be no doubt that the place is a  much improved one since the Institution came in for  such a scathing criticism both in Parliament & in  the Papers. Not only this, but the task that you would  have had of nursing him would have thoroughly knocked  you up & made things worse, however, I have not the  slightest doubt that he will get quite well again in  a very short time. Tell him for me that he is a good  boy for not crying & I will send him some more  Post Cards. I'm sure he will be well treated there  & not only this, it will be a change for him & a rest  to you altho' I know that you will be worrying about  him, but everything will be all right. I always read both  your & Mabs bonnie letters scores of times & I get them  regularly now. Tell Mab, not to go to the trouble
she has, of getting Cigarettes for the Boys, as I want  to tell you that Egypt is the home of the Cigarette. It is  nothing but Cigarette shops & on every street corner  there is scores of men & women selling them & Arabs  follow us for miles into the Desert, when we go out  to manoevres, selling "Fags", & the first thing one  hears when he wakes up in the morning is "Flag  Cigarette" ½ a Piastre" (1 ¾') I am glad to say that few  of us smoke them & as for myself, I have given them  up entirely. We are enjoying ourselves very fine &   altho the work is hard, nevertheless we are happy.  We are going at top speed every day & the horses  are called on to do some arduous work hauling the  guns & wagons through the sand of the Desert, (for  this is where we drill), but they are going fine.  Yesterday we started out in Full War strength &  a fine sight we made too. Big waggons were with  us for the carting of baggage Etc & we moved just  as we would go in the actual job. We bivouaced  about 10 miles in the Desert & occupied a position  in Action in the night & dug ourselves in, & we  finished up at 11.30pm & laid down & slept till  4 a.m. & then commenced our firing at daybreak.  It was lovely sleeping out & quite enjoyed ourselves 
We have General Bridges  & General Birdwood following  our work very closely & they criticise our work as  "Very Good" & our O.C. was complimented on the  fine Battery he had command of. (Hows that.)  All the Sergeants are well & send their kindest  remembrances to all & thank everyone for their good  wishes.  We have rumours always that we leave for the   Front in "2 days time" but it never comes off.  The Turks are crossing the Desert to attack  Egypt, but Experts say that they will never get here.  I haven't been into Cairo much lately as we  can get a bath in Camp now & Cairo is a dirty  stinking hole & the businesses have marked up  "Special Prices for Australians" its special  alright as we always have to pay twice as much  as anyone else. Boots are an extraordinary  price here as very few wear them, and a pair  which cost 7/6 at Johnnie Wallaces in King St  cost £1.7.6. here. Clothing is not so bad but  quite dear enough. There is no milkmen with  cart in Cairo, as a nigger drives up some cows  to a persons front door, hops in, & gets a jug &  milks a cow right there. Dead funny isn't it. 
I have received several papers & weeklys & I thank  you for them. Vin Yardley gets the "Table Talk" every  week & other papers, so you see we can still see  dear old Melbourne occasionly. How is George  getting on, I haven't got a letter from him or Charl  yet, but hope to soon. I hope they are both  getting on well. Tell Mab, that there is no girls  like the Melbourne girls. How is Floss Robbie, ?  give here my love & also the boys send theirs too.  Tell Jack Tilton that this is a grand life, & I'll  expect him out here with the Reinforcements, he  will not regret it. Jack Heywood sends his regards  to him. There is plenty of Phone work in the Artillery now.  How is Miss Taylor getting on, tell her I am always  thinking of her, & her little blue bags are doing good  service. How are you off for money, if short, I'll  send you some. I have plenty of clean clothes  but some of my socks want darning. I am going  to tackle them when I finish this letter. Now  dear Mother, I must close as I have told you the  news so with fondest love to all enquirers both  at home & elsewhere & an extra ration for yourself  I remain your loving son & Brother  Norman.

I am glad to see that you had Lennex  out for Xmas. It saved you a lot of work.


We have plenty of moving pictures in Camp now  also a big Boxing Stadium & this provides   some great sport. 