Author: Fred L Biddle
Date: 12 February 1916
Nationality: Australian

Text:
 Dear Ellsworth. Yours of Jan 1st duly to hand a week or so ago. I am sorry to find you have had such a rough passage, but hope you are now very nearly, if not quite, OK. We are now reforming & reorganising; & as you can guess re-equipping which is a slow process. Capt Harris (late Agt Dac) has been promoted Tempy Major is in command of this battery. I hear Major Phillips is likely to be back any day, & he may possibly take this battery again. However two more divisions of guns are to be formed here, out of what we have in Egypt. We will go into the new establishment which practically wipes out the Dac & cuts down the BA.C. considerably. Perhaps Major Phillips will get a brigade I expect to get a step when the new divisions
are formed. No doubt you have heard all the details of the evacuation by now. The battery left on the night of 17th & I was left behind for special duty controlling  the embarkation of the troops from Anzac Beach. It was quite a good job, but very easily could have been a dirty one, if the  Turks had found out what was going on. However everything went OK. we were putting 430 men on a motor lighter in an average of 20 minutes (from mouth of Anzac Gully to last man aboard.) The men were splendid & there was not a sound from them or a check of any sort We made [[5 1/2 ?]] hours in the time allowed on the second last night, & could easily have done the same on, the 20th /21st. Lone Pine  was held by 18 men for nearly 4 hours at the finish & the Turks were Bluffed all the way. Right up to the last the show was just like an ordinary night, with the usual amount of trench sniping simulated
by men walking up & down potting from various loopholes. In fact by an ingenious arrangement first thought out by a corporal of Light Horse rifles were firing at odd times up to 30 minutes after the last man was out of the front line. The blowing up of the Nek was a great sight, & even then the Turks thought we were about to attack. I embarked when the last of the Australians were on the beach & everything OK. It was a great experience but the waiting during the last 4 hours was somewhat  trying as so much could result from a "fool" act of a single man. However alls well that ends well. It hurt a bit leaving Lieuts Wolfenden & Siddell & all the old boys behind; but we managed to make a triumph out of what might easily have been a disaster, & so were able to hope we hadn’t caused them to turn in their graves. I hear Turner  has received a commission 
in the R.F.C. Hope he doesn't talk them to death. If he can only learn to talk less he ought to do well, as he undoubtedly has brains. I hear young Arrowsmith has also received a commission in the R.F.A. We are well rid of him, but I’m sorry for the R.F.A. Tell any of the men you see that I hope they are getting fit, but for any sake not to chase after cold footed jobs in England. There are plenty of B class to fill them & “Australians”  don’t do it. Well as I said early in this letter, hope you are now O.K. Thanks for writing. Yours  sincerely,  Fred. L Biddle  