Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth
Date: 14 February 1915
Location: Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text: 
Sunday 14th Feb    Dearest Mother & all at Home  I nearly missed writing  this week as I have had a slight touch of Influenza  which has been very prevalent here lately. I was  permitted to stay in bed for 3 days, by the Dr & I am  glad to say that I am quite alright again. Braith-  waite, too, has been down with pain the the stomach  caused by food poisoning & the Dr had to come down  & put hot fomentations on his bingy, but he is  alright again, too. There is not much new news I  can tell you as it is beginning to get monotonous here  & we shall be glad to leave for the Front soon  Last Sunday, we rode out to Sakkara Tombs  where the Sacred Bulls & other great treasured  mummies are preserved. The Tombs are about  ¾ of a mile long & every now & then there is a   big vault of granite carved out for the body  of a sacred bull & other sacred creatures.  I cannot find time to describe it to you but I   will send you a Descriptive Book concerning the  ancient mysteries of it all. We have an  extremely busy time of it now & don't get much time to ourselves & when you get this, we  are only too glad to get to bed. There are several  big pictureshows opened here & together with the   Boxing Stadium, we are well catered for in sport  I got no fewer that 8 letters by this last Mail  as they have all been help up in the Canal, but  as this scrap is all over now, we expect no more  trouble in this respect. Was pleased to get a   letter from Chas also from "Binns" & I am  sending him some Post Cards. I am pleased to   know that he is quite well again. Dear Mother,  it is impossible for me to answer all the kind  friends letters that I get regularly, so I know  that you will not mind spreading what little  news I send to you. There is another Christ Church  Choir Boy turned up here & he is Albert Charles  Prosser, he is with the N.S. Wales Infantry & is  serving under the name of Albert Charles as he  ran away from home. Les Ilsley is here &  is with me to night, he is mad to get transferred  to the Australians. We have just got a  General of Artillery straight from the Front to  train the Artillery & to take us with him to the  front. He lectures to us twice a week & he has told us some wonderful adventures  & says that the British Artillery have made  a great name for themselves at the Front.  The fight at the Canal was a half hearted  affair & the British let the Turks get the  pontoons on the Canal & as soon as they  were crowded with Turks, the first shot from  the H.M.S. Swift sure blew the whole show  to bits. The Turks kept surrendingering in   batches of 10 up to 100s . All the Australians  have been brought back to Mena. The  second contingent & first batch of re-inforcements  are here now & getting their baptism of the  Sahara Dessert. Now, Mum, how is everyone?  Flos Robbie sent me one last week. Give her  my love. Tell George I am enjoying myself great. Tell Jack Tilton  that I don't see him in Egypt yet. Remember me to Miss Taylor. If you have  time drop a line to Constable Watson for me &  I'll write to him soon. Good bye for the present with fondest love to all & yourself I am   your loving son Norman. 