Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth
Location: County of London War Hospital Epsom Surrey England
 Date: 5 December 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:  My Dearest Mother & all at Home, Well, here I am in England. Who would have thought that I would ever get so far round the world 2 years ago? Well, anyhow here I am, so anything is possible after this. Now to tell you my story, starting from the 18th Stationary Hospital at Lemnos Island. As soon as I was convalsocent, I was sent to the Lowland Casualty Clearing Hospital to wait for a boat to take me to either England or Australia, as this is the usual course adopted 
with all Enteric Cases. Some misunderstanding arose thro' wrongly reading a Military Order which concerned the Australian & New Zealanders The order was to the effect that "no disabled Australians or New Zealanders were to be sent to England, but were to be sent to Australia, & the 18th Hospital Authorities evidently thought that Enteric Cases came under this heading &  so we had to miss the boat which we were previously booked for, whilst their error was rectified, & so we came on the big "Aquitania". It would take too long for me to tell you here the complete description of the boat but enough to say that she makes all other boats & liners look like canoes in comparison. Well, when we got on board, we entered an Electric Lift, of which I counted up & I believe there are others. It was just like being in a big building going past the different decks. When we got to "C" Deck (we got in at "G" deck) we went along a very long passage towards the stern & passed hundreds of beds, where the cabins usually were, & we passed the bannister overlooking  the 1st class dining saloon, & this enormous place contained nothing but beds (750 in all) it was simply wonderful. There were no fewer than 1044 on our deck alone, & on other be decks there were beds which brought the total number in the whole ship to 7,000. We only carried 4000 patients on this trip. Big as the "Aquitania" is, she is able to turn & manoevre easy enough & away she went. The speed has been cut down to 18 knots instead of 23 knots on account of the vibration affecting the wounded We called at Naples, Italy for coal & water & I was only able to buy a few Post Cards from one of the boats which sells these sort of things. We could see the Vesuvius Volcano not far away, &  it was smoking &  at night, it looked very fine as the top was a red glow as a furnace, which showed us that it isn't extinct by any means. Pompeii is on the other side to the Harbour of the Volcano & I was able to secure a book of views of the ruins which I am sending to you with the P.Cs The "Mauretania" was alongside of us in Naples & we took up nearly all the Quay. We left then for Gibraltar at daybreak & when we arrived there, I was very much impressed 
with the great impregnable fort It is a great high rock & it fairly bristles with Guns. Right at the top of it among The clouds we could see 4 great guns which can shoot right across the Mediterranean The town looked very cosy situated in a little valley beneath the great guns. The houses, like those at Naples, are very tall & seem to have no chimneys. We only stayed for ½ an hour until a despatch boat brought us our Orders & then we sailed. As on my trip from dear old Australia, I felt very off color & kept on my back pretty well all the time Big as she (the boat) is, she is not a good sailer, & when we got into the notorious Bay of Biscay, she behaved herself very badly & when she rolls, she goes over very far & takes a terrible time to recover & right herself again The sailors on board admit that she is no good as a sea boat as she is top heavy. At night, we could hear the crockery falling & sliding all over the mess room, & people walking along the passages were cutting all sorts of capers & one particularly amusing incident caused me to nearly split my sides with laughing Two of the Chaplains coming 
back from the supper room arm-in-arm were staggering along crashing first on one wall, then on the other & they looked, from behind, like a pair of drunks rolling home at midnight on a Saturday They only wanted a Cray fish under each arm & it would have been complete. The food on board was, well the least said of it, the better. The nurses (English) are a very morose lot, & don't seem to care very much about their job. The Australian nurses simply lose them, both in work & looks & manner. Whilst on board, I became a great favourite of General Hughes of the Light Horse, he was Mayor of St Kilda, & he would bring me all kinds of things such as papers, magazines, Tobacco, cigarettes Etc & would have brought me Fruits & sweets, only I was on milk diet & the nurse said it would only throw me back, but all the same, I was very grateful for his kindness. I was very glad when the boat reached Southamton, & it was very foggy & we anchored outside until daybreak & next day, it was a drizzling rain nearly all the time, but by the time the 4 tugs got us into dock, it cleared somewhat & the disembarking of the patients.
Norman.