Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth
Date: 21 August  1915
Rank: Sergeant
Nationality: Australian

Text:

Monday 
Dearest Mother & all at Home Just a line to let you know that I am still alright & the boys the same, altho' Diarrhoea is a little prevalent amongst us & it takes nearly all the strength out of one. I have just had to spend a couple of days in Hospital with a touch of Enteritis & vomiting, but am back again on duty again. There have been several changes & promotions in the Battery since I last wrote & you will be surprised to know that all the Senior N.C.Os have been left out in the cold. Dowsett has been transferred to Head Quarters staff. Moon has been made Sergeant Major. The Quarter Master Sergeant has been transferred to The Ordnance Depot & a corporal is doing his job at present & the junior corporal of the Battery has been made Sergeant in Moons place. Myself & Corporal have been left out of the "running". So I had an interview with our O.C. & he said that it was because I had one or two little faults such as "familiarity with the men on my Subsection, Etc." altho' not  exactly neglect of duty, so I asked him, if he would have any objections to my transferring to another Unit & he said "No", so I have sent a letter to the O.C. No 3 Section Divisional Ammunition Column (he was my former Battery Commander in the 25th Battery) & I am only awaiting his answer before forwarding my transfer papers. I may have to revert to a Corporal for the time being in the Column, but the pay is only 6’ a day less than that of Sergeant, & I would soon be able to reach my former Rank. If I do have to revert, Mother, the pay won't affect you, as I can easily do without the 6’ per day. There has been very little change otherwise since I last wrote to you & it looks as if we will have to do the winter here, but we have got good boots & plenty of socks & other clothing, but there will be plenty of clay in the trenches. What did you have for dinner yesterday, Roast Pork, Onion Stuffing, Baked Spuds, & Fresh vegetables, & Tapioca custard to finish up with. We had Bully-beef. in a few boiled onions & a handful of boiled rice too, so I'm going to shake things up when I return. How is everybody, Give my kind regards to all kind enquirers, Love to all relatives & a special whack to all the Ellsworth family & an extra ration for yourself from your loving Son Norman. 

How are your eyes? I hope they are well again, also Ruperts.  Tell Mab to send me Verne Ritchies' proper Military address & Rank. Norman