Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth
Location: No 1 Boyton Camp Codford Wilts England
Regiment: 1st Divisional Artillery Date: 5 February 1917
Nationality: Australian

Text:
 My Dearest Mother, & all at Home, Just a line again this week, as there is not much news. Our bad luck is still keeping us close company, & a lot of our horses are down with mange, & ringworm, and other ailments, & are therefore in strict Isolation, & we have to do our work with scratch 4 horse teams, which doesn't give the drivers their proper training, and then again the so-called officers in the battery who we have to put up with are almost unbearable at times. I get absolutely no assistance from Major Harris, who since he was invested with the D.S.O, lives away in War- Minster with his Wife, & he has taken a horse for himself, & one for his wife, & the consequence is, that the battery loses his services, & also that of 2 horses —  & further, I have to send a forage wagon into Warminster every 4 days, with 4 days of forage for them. With regard to our next in Command (Lieut Dyke) well, he is just the limit. He is only recently over from Australia, — knows nothing of our work, — & everything he tampers with, he makes a mess of, as well as making me wild. Whilst my Q.M. Sgt was away for a few days, he went into the store, & messed up all the clothing
ledgers & issued clothing which he had no right to, & the consequence is, Lockyer, (the Q.M.S.) has done nothing but swear, & to get drunk  since he returned. — On a mounted parade, the gives wrong signals, & gets all the teams in a devil of a mess, & then I have to get things right. The other day, he thought he would be funny, & send D.O Wickens & myself away with the rest of the spare horses on exercise, & he practised a few fancy manoevers of his own during our absence, & when we returned, the drivers told us some lovely stories of his doings, & the way he got messed up. — I am best part of the day checking him in his errors, & advising him what to do, but the bald headed old idiot (he is only 30) thinks he knows better. When he has a man up for Orderly room for a minor offence, such as late on Parade, he hits the poor beggar very hard, — but when he has a confirmed scoundrel who has been A.W.L for weeks, he lets him off with a caution. Only today, we had a chap up for a trivial offence, & I said that "admonishment" would meet the case, but the "fathead" must "back" the poor chap with 7 days L.P. No.2, & without pay. As for coming in to action, — well I won't say anything about that, except that if I wasn't with him, the Lord only knows which way the guns would point, and I have to give all the orders myself, otherwise there would be no shooting, & he is an Officer.
We had General Brunker, the Inspector of R. H and R. F Artillery to see us to-day, & I had the work of the world to prevent him doing the wrong thing everytime, it really is very exasperating to me at times, and the men are all talking of him, too, and they are always cursing him for his wrong orders, & men are peculiar creatures to handle especially when they have no con- fidence in their officers. When it comes to working out angles etc, with directors & plotters, I can only compare his wanderings like a drunken man trying to find his house on a dark night when all houses look alike, & you must try & imagine how I stand & watch him try & work the instrument, & when he has thoroughly got himself & instrument tangled up, & the most outrageous angles calculated, then I say, "Oh — for the Lords sake let me work the — thing". So you can see how very little encouragement it is for me to work my hardest. — and yet I am not sufficiently educated for the commissioned rank. If he gets command of a section (2 guns) in France, I'm sure that he'll not only kill a lot of our Infantry, but he'll get his own men killed before he fires a shot that takes effect in the enemys territory. I really cannot understand why such people get the commissioned rank now-a-days.
No doubt you will all say "Oh! Jake has got a touch of liver this week". — Well really, I haven't, but I'm getting "fed up" of carrying these "passengers". I do not mind instructing men, — its my job, — but I do not see why I should have to train so called Officers.  If I was not a capable Warrant Officer, then I would not wear the Crown on my right arm, but these Officers(?) only think of men saluting them in the streets, & buying chocolates for silly girls & taking them for taxi (joy) rides. I can tell you that there are some funny looking things dressed up in Officer uniforms now-a-days. Well, I'll change the subject. What do you think of America now? Very near time they did something isnt it? Fritz is in for a very rotten time this year, & the guns & munitions are just pouring into France. What oh! when we start. The snow has fallen heavily here last Sunday, & the whole place looks lovely, but it hampers training a little. I do hope you are all well. I received some papers & "Table Talks" lately Thanks very much for them, they re good. I haven't got the parcels yet, but "never say die". Again hoping you are all well, & with fondest love to you all I am Your loving Son,  Norman.


Still address Mail etc to Gravesend. N. 116TH HOWITZER BATTERY 5th February 1917. 1ST DIVL, ARTILLERY, AUS. No 1 Boyton Camp Codford; Wilts England. 