
Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth
Location: Gallipoli Peninsular Turkey Date: 20 June 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:  Dearest Mother & all at Home, Just a line to let you know that we are all quite will & getting along famously. Things are very quiet now & we do very little shooting as the Turks wont come at it at all now, & if they do open up, they are soon glad to shut up again. Since my gun (1169) has been repaired & put into Action again, she put a Turkish gun out of action with a direct hit on to it, so you see, "Little Liz" as we call her, is starting to avenge the "doing" she got on the 7th May. The boys of my subsection are all in great fettle & are no trouble whatever. All our other gunners, including the 1st Reinforcements, are with us now, & my Corporal, who was back at Alexandria with the horses & Drivers, is also with me, so this relieves me of a lot of responsibility & is also the best of Company, too. I am sorry to tell you that our last two Mails from Victoria, have gone astray, & whilst other units have got theirs, the poor old Artillery boys have to go cadging for news. I suppose it is winter in Melbourne now, & I suppose Ice Skating is in full swing. How I wish I could get off for a week or two & tear off home & back again, my word, I would have a lot to tell you about Australian soldiers.
The Navy have nothing but praise for them & a Warrant Officer off one of the Battleships asked one of our Colonels "What do you Australians do when there is no war". This same chap was on the beach when the first boat load of Infantry got ashore, & he said that he actually saw a man jump out of the boat into 5 feet of water, & when he came up, he was "fixing his bayonet" on. Hows that, eh. If you could only see the nature of the country we are in & the difficult places we have got our guns into position, you would be astonished. Only those who visit this place after the war (Authors, Etc.) & ourselves, will know what our brave Infantry went through on that memorable Sunday 25th April 1915. I do hope the Casualty Lists will not have a f depressing effect on Volunteering in Australia, because we need every possible man that can come & at the earliest convenience. There have been two Distinguished Conduct Medals won by our battery, so this should be some impetus for recruiting. Well Mother, dear, we are not allowed to say much as the censor is very strict, so will close now, assuring you that I am in the very best of Nick & hoping you are all the same  Believe me to be  J Meformarke with the very best of love to you all Your affectionate son Norman
P.S. Have just received your latest letter & 2 from Mab & parcel of Sox (dated 5th May) very many thanks
with love from Norman. Tell Mab, that I'll give her a bangle made out of a driving band off a Turkish shell, that lobbed near my gun, when I come home  They are the rage here Norm.

The British have been bombarding the Turkish trenches for 18 hours & are still at it. "Finish Turk" (this is what the Indians say)