 Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt  Date: 24 March 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:


Dearest Mother & all at Home Just a line to let you know   that I received another of your & Mabs welcome letters   yesterday & am very pleased to know that you are all   well & I can assure you that I have never enjoyed better   health in all my life & I am in much better condition than   when I was in Melbourne on account of the work & also   walking through the loose sand, to say nothing of the plain   food as well. I have a splendid little horse to ride now  & he is considered to be one of the fastest horses in the Battery.  His name is “Horace” (Horry, for short.) Nearly all the   boys have trained their horses to lie down for them, &   some can even crawl through their legs whilst they   lie still. We are still a busy lot & are capable of   doing all kinds of work including building rafts for   floating Guns & Wagons across rivers, Etc. We expect to   leave here shortly for the Dardanelles, & the latest we   have heard is, that General Sir Ian Hamilton has arrived   at Alexandria & is to take charge of the Allied Forces which    consists of French Cavalry & Infantry, Indian Troops & Australian   & New Zealand Army Corps (about 150,000 all told) to start   operations in Turkey, so we are in the highest spirits. 
A lot of the French Troops have already arrived in Alexand-  ria & our people are being shifted to there by degrees, so   we should soon be enjoying ourselves in the thick of   the “brawl”. To day, I was sent for by Col Johnson   & offered the job of Sergeant Major in a Unit in the 2nd   Contingent, but at the same time, he asked me not to   accept it, as promotion in the Battery would come   soon enough to me, so I declined the Promotion on   his advice. I do not think it was selfish on his part,   but he wants to keep us all together & does not   think he should train N.C.Os for other Units, because   what we have learnt about Gunnery Etc, would be   of no use to us whatever in the other Units. He   told me that he was surprised of the progress I had made   since I had given up the Trumpets. I am perfectly   satisfied with my present rank & position & Major   Phillips told Col Johnson that “he did not want to   lose me”, so I have every reason to be pleased with   myself.   I am pleased to read that the House is nearly   paid for, & is, I hope, by now. If you should be in   any difficulty about Rates or Taxes, you have my   permission to use any money of mine for the purpose,   & don’t think it will make me short when I return   for I have no intentions, whatever, of looking for   any other  home or entering in the bonds of matrimony. I have   quite made up my mind on this score, so you can rely   on this statement of mine. I have never given any   girl any encouragement in this line whatever, but   the girl Cutler is, I am afraid, making it rather   warm by writing every week to me & I have found it   necessary to gradually cease writing to her in order to   convince her that I am still of the same mind as   when I told her, shortly before I left Melbourne, that I   wanted her to look elsewhere. She is a very decent   little girl & all that sort of thing & I have a certain   amount of admiration for her but nothing else what  ever, so I hope, Mother & Mab that you will not   encourage her to come to the house to any extent,   because I know that she is a girl that needs little or   no encouragement, altho’ she does it inoffensively   enough, to try and form a stronger acquaintance. The   other girl, Nellie Wheeler, I have only written to once   or twice, & I have only got one letter from her & that   was addressed to King Georges Sound, so you will   see by this, that there is “nothing doing” here. Mr, Mrs   & Ruby Davidson have been very good to me & send   me a letter occasionly & in one, was a gold “Swastika”   about the size of a sovereign, asking me to wear it inside   my jacket as a token of Good Luck, so I have attached it to the cord of my Identity Disc, so it has to stay   there now, as it is a crime to remove these Discs now.  I can also assure you that there is “nothing doing”   here also, as they have too much "boodle" for me.   I haven’t sent any photos of mine to the girl Cutler  & I hope you haven’t given her one of those I sent to you.   I hope you will not be bored by all this stuff &  nonsense, but I want you to know what my intentions   are & how I am situated in these little matters &  I know that it will “relieve your feelings as well as mine”.  I know that when I return that my wages at the   Mint would still be 48/- a week & the price of living   will be very high for many months after the war is   over, altho there is no reason why it should be so,   except that the Tradesmen have that excuse for putting   up the price of everything & therefore we must all look   towards a fairly stiff pull for a while anyhow. So   just have the little bed in the corner of the “boys”   room & a tin of Cove Oysters & some fried ony Onions   for supper on the first night I return.  I am glad to say that Jack Hall is better &  is now out of Hospital & working like a Tojan to make   up for lost time; He sends his kind regards to all at home.  
All the other boys are well. Braithwaite is still the   same old Harry & is generally late getting up in the   morning & late to meals. He tells us it was just the   same at Home with him.   Fred Conradi is still the same sterling Fred   & is always doing odd jobs for everybody in the Battery.   Adams has got bad news from home as his  Father is playing up & is on the booze & this has made   the poor kid as miserable as a “bandycoot”.  Dowsett still gets the “nasties” & makes every   one feel uncomfortable at times. He is down in the   dumps because of one his Staff mates has been sent   home unfit for service & this chaps wife is staying   with Mrs Dowsett, so I suppose he thinks this chap   will be taking Mrs Dowsett out for walks.  The 8th & 9th & 10th Light Horse & other units have   arrived here & are beginning to settle down. They are a   fine lot of chaps.   Well Mother &  Mab, I've bored you this week   quite enough with all this rot, but promise that it   will be different next week so with fondest love   to all & an extra ration for yourselves.   I remain   Your loving son & brother  Norman. Love to Floss We are going to hear the Bishop of Jerusalem preach next week.


Mother  This letter, or portion thereof, is of a private tone & I would   ask you not to read it, or show it   to any body but yourself & Mab.   Destroy it when read please. Norman