Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth
Location: Gaba Tepe Gallipoli Peninsular Turkey
Date: 14 August 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:


Dearest Mother & all at Home, Just a line to let you know that I am quite will & very comfortable, & I hope you are all the same. It is a great comfort to get your letters from Melbourne, & no matter how hard the chaps have been worked, a Mail from Australia is the most wonderful tonic in the world to buck them up. We had just concluded a big battle when the Mail arrived, so we are all happy & thoroughly contented now. One of our greatest enemies is Lice: Great big gray creatures who breed in thousands in the seams of ours clothing, but just lately we have had little white muslin or calico bags containing sulphur or some other like powder, & I am glad to say it has had the effect of repelling the horrid things considerably. The poor Infantry chaps in the firing trenches suffer very much from them & they are always to be seen at work with their thumb nails, altho' they don't wear much clothing either. Our chaps could do with a well earned rest now, & it is a great pity some of the Stay-at-Homes couldnt could just see them for a moment & decide if they are not wanted immediately: 
Mother, you will be surprised to learn that I am seriously thinking of applying for a Commission, but as N.C.Os are unable, in this Brigade to qualify, so I I have had to make an application to the Divisional Ammunition Column (Captain Madden of the old No 9 Battery) is in charge & as I was formerly his trumpeter, I think that I should stand a good chance, anyhow I am going to have a try & a good one too, & if I succeed, I will be able to work thro' to a Battery later on. Sergeant Major Dowsett has been transferred from our Battery to Head Quarters Staff & we had another Permanent Sergeant Major from the Column in his place, but he is probably leaving us to go to another Brigade as Warrant Officer. We are also short of a Quarter Master Sergeant, ours having been transferred to Ordnance Depot. I will tell you in my next letter how I get on. I received letters from the following; Mother; George; Mabel; Charl; & May Tilton, & also a "Table Talk" from Mab, so you see I was quite occupied for some time. Tell May Tilton that the Hospital ship "Gascon" is right alongside us & so I suppose Nurse Tucker is on board. I do hope, Mother, you have got relief for your poor eyes by this. 
also Rupert, despite Georges kindness I don't think his eyes were effectively treated in the first instance, but I do hope it will not entail too much expense. Fancy Mab, knitting, "let 'em all come" every little helps & winter will soon be on us & I suppose we will want it all. I am well off for socks at present, but could do with some singlets & a sweater for the coming season. Please Mother, don't forget to send the medicine chest which I spoke of in my previous letter, as we get diarrhoea, & other little ailments, & the blood gets out of order & then we get liverish & a trifle bad tempered at times, but still we are a happy party. I am afraid I've told you all the news for this week, so I'll write as often as I can. I hope you are all well, give my kindest regards to all kind enquirers & my love to all relations & best love to all at home. Tell me next time the name of our friends & their address in England. Well Mother dear, good-bye for the present with fondest love from Your affectionate & loving son Norman Don't forget our dinner 