Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth
Location: Gaba Tepe Gallipoli Peninsular Turkey Date: 28 August 1915
Nationality: Australian


Text:

August 28th 1915.
 Dearest Mother & all at Home, Just another short note to let you know that I am still alright, altho' feeling rather "crummy" at times, & diarehoea has been rather chummie with me lately, but I am taking Epsom Salts in my tea & am trying to fix it up that way. In your last letter you asked me if I got the parcel of Socks & 2 Handkerchiefs; I think I acknowledged them in a previous letter, but if I didn't, then I want to tell you that they came to me quite safely & I thank you very much for them. I could do with a singlet or two, or a sweater for the coming season, but otherwise we are very well for books & other things like that. I am anxiously waiting for that little medicine chest that I wrote asking for, it will be very handy, as one feels quite off colour every now & then & a little Homoepathic Medecine will make all the difference in the world. We are still able to go for our daily swim & providing Beachy Bill (a Turks Gun who fires on the beach occasionally) does'nt wish us "Good-day", we quite enjoy ourselves.
We received some stores from the Canteen Ship yesterday, & it was divided up between the Subsections & I was able to get 5/- worth of various articles such as, Tinned Sausages, Salmon, Vinegar, Lemonade Powders, Packet Herbs, Candles, Matches, Vaseline, Fancy biscuits, Etc. & we also got an issue of Gift Cigarettes from the Victoria Racing Club (with love) in addition to our weekly rations, so you see we are alright for a while. But, oh for some fresh green vegetables, we have forgotten the taste of them. I have heard nothing more about my transfer, as I am waiting for the O.C. D.A.Cs reply, but think it will not be long now, anyhow I hope not. Mother, will you ask George if he would mind buying me a pocket flash lamp & a spare battery for it, as it is handy for night firing, & I will settle up with him when it comes, Well, Mother dear, I think I've finished for this week so will close: I'll try & write each week, but there may be difficulties for the conveyance of mails from here. I hope you are all well. Give my kindest regards to all enquirers, my best love to all Relations & all at Home & an extra ration for yourself. Believe me Your loving son. Norman 