Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth
Location: No 1 Boyton Camp Codford Wilts England
Regiment: 1st Divisional Artillery Date: 21 February 1917
Nationality: Australian

Text:  Dearest Mother, & all at Home,  Just a little note  to you, as I have been in bed for  a couple of days with a cold, but now that  the sun is out, & the weather much warmer in  consequence, I am quite myself again, & have  resumed duty, so don't start and worry about it,  please.  I consider that I have been extremely  healthy to have missed colds this winter, seeing   that this is the coldest winter for years, and  I caught this one thro' sleeping near a broken  window, which has since been replaced.  The  Dr was tip-top to me, & waited on me "hand &  foot", & came over to me 3 times each day, &  brought me "Bulletins" and other Australian papers,   & asked me if I would like a week in hospital  & all that kind of palaver, but there is a   reason for it of course, as he generally comes   to me for a horse to ride on Saturdays &  Sundays, so there you are.  I have not got  any mail for more than a fortnight, but  this I attribute to the fresh out burst of U boat  business, but I don't think it will last for long,  still I hope for some very soon.  I have written   every week to you, whether there was a mail  going out or not, so its not my fault if you did  not get them.
I often wonder how poor Marion Ellsworth is  getting on, - poor girl, she is going thro'  a terrible time.  There certainly has been changes  since I left Melbourne, & what with poor Amy  passing away; & Beattie Miller, & several others  I know, - well Father Time is moving over  that way, too.  We are not getting our equipment  so quickly as at first, & we cannot do a   shoot until next month, so that means   our departure for France will be further   delayed.  We are being considerably annoyed  by our old Tommy Lieut Colonel who knows  as much about up-to-date artillery work, as   a cat knows about the first book of Euclid, &  our Officers call him everything, - & to his  face, & he thinks the Australian Officers very  awful, & their language, dreadful.  George Allan (late Johnson) has written  me a note, - he is about 10 miles from  here. He tells me that the Medical   Board have declared him "Unfit".  Harry Johnson is about 25 miles from   here.  There is no more news this week, so   will close, hoping you are all well &  with my fondest love to all.  I am  Your loving son  Norman.  Enclosed is the photo of the young lady who   told me "that she loves me"


116th HOWITZER BATTERY  21 February 1917.  Ist DIVL. ARTILLERY, AUS.  [*I send a Gas Helmet which   I brought from France with me,  to you by this mail, per parcel  post.   N. G. E.*]  No. 1 Boyton Camp. Codford. Wills. England. 