
Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth  Date: 18 February 1915 Location: Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:
    Dearest Mother & all at Home  Just a line to let you know  that I am in the best of health & having an enjoyable  time, despite the fact we are getting tired of Egypt. We still have plenty of sights to see yet, but it is  difficult for us all the get off in suitable time, but on  Wednesdays, 25% get Leave from 10 am. so this gives us  a better chance. Yesterday Braithwaite, Conradi, Goodall,  & myself went on Leave & visited Heliopolis, where I was  in the Hospital for 5 days, & there we had a good look  around in the daylight & some fine buildings we saw  too. We had a good hot bath in Cairo, then a feed  then took the tram for Heliopolis. It is a street  railway rather than a tram, & at one time it is  running through the streets, then it runs into a railway  yard & runs through stations, & then later on into  the street again. To day the battery has gone out into  the Desert for manoevres etc, but I have been left  in Camp, (being Orderly Sergeant) to take charge of all  men & horses left in the Lines. Last night we went   to the "Kinsall" a sort of Opera house show, but  it was pretty deadly. I am sending you the  programme to let you see.
The second contingent which arrived in Egypt  last week are stationed at Heliopolis & seemed  to be much better dressed that we are, & I suppose  that the 3rd and 4th lots will be better looked after still.  The men who volunteer first, generally get treated  the worst in this kind of business & yet they are supposed  to be the pick of the bunch. I haven't got any letters from  the Mint fellows yet altho' I have written several to them,  so I will discontinue writing to them after this. Constable  Watson is the only decent chap up there & he often writes  me long letters & sends me papers, Etc. Of course I will  write to him as often as I can. I would like, if it is  possible, Mum, to get a few papers or "Leaders" Etc, as we  are pretty hard up for reading at times.  All our fellows are well & send their kind  regards to all.  I got the packet of stationery which Mab  sent & it is appreciated very much by all in the Mess.  Braithwaite dies as usual every night in the bed,  & it is the work of the world to '"raise him from the dead"  each morning. Then he starts to swear blind that  Reveille hasn't gone yet, & he sits up in bed & talks  of the staff not knowing their business in having  Reveille so early, & of course all the while he is  talking like this, time is getting later & if he gets  
on Parade late, Moon reports him & then he gets  into trouble. I have no difficulty in getting up as the  "Crier" or Caller up" in the Arab village opposite our  lines kicks up quite enough noise to wake me. This  old ruffian is too old to work, so he is appointed to this  job. There is no clocks among the Arabs, but this old  "coot" gets up somewhere about 4 a.m. & roams about  the ally ways setting up a most dismal howl &  of course it is impossible for any one to get any sleep while  this old demon is at large. Why on earth the other  niggers dont throw bricks at him I don't know.  Moon is still the same old woman with his book, &   is always in trouble with his men & horses.  Yardley, Jack Hall, Adams, Conradi, are all the  fine lot of chaps they were in Broadmeadows. Ralph  is our Mess orderly now, & washes up our dishes &  waits on the tables. How is all at home. Give  them all my love, also Miss Taylor, how is  Aunt Hannah & all at Winchelsea, give them my  love & remembrances. Hope George and Charlie & family  are well. Got a letter from Charl last week, Give  my love to Rupert, Floss Robbie, & all kind enquirers  & accept an extra ration for your dear self  from your loving son Norman.
A small coin inside  ½ a piastre (5 milliemes) worth 2 ¼.

Thank Mab for the writing Tablet  Tell Jack Tilton to come out here. 