Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth
Location: No 1 Boyton Camp Codford Wilts England
Regiment: 1st Divisional Artillery Date: 1 February 1917
Nationality: Australian


Text:

 My Dearest Mother, & all at Home, Just a line to let you know that my luck has changed again.— Yes! My battery is to be broken up on arrival in France. All the batteries are being converted from 4, to 6 gun batteries, & 2 of our guns, with personnel etc, go to the 101st How Bty; & the other 2 go to the 102nd How Bty so we spare parts such as Battery Commander; Battery Sergeant Major; & Bty Q.M.S, & Farriers & Fitters & Saddlers, will have to go back to Details, & goodness only knows if I will ever get to the firing line. The other batteries in this camp meet with a similar fate, so they're unlucky too. — It is rotten luck for me, just as I have a Battery of my own, & getting them on so well, too, but I will not relax my efforts to turn them out a smart lot, although there certainly is no encouragement for me to work & worry to get them into top hole order. To-day, I had them all out with guns and wagons & full detachments, & they looked fine, (altho' I say it myself) & it made me feel miserable to think that they were going to be broken up, — and they don't know of this, either, on account of it being a "secret" order
Major Harris, (who has just been invested with the D.S.O) says that he will look after me, but I doubt if he can do any good, as Major Biddle tried hard enough to get me, &  Harris has been before a Medical Board, & is likely to be sent to Australia as "Unfit", so if it was so hard for me to get out of "Details" as a Sergeant, how much more difficulty will it be for me to get out of Details as a B.S.M.?. — I really wonder if ever I will have a battery of my own. The men of the battery are now working like "Trojans", and even at night time, they are to be seen in the Harness rooms working (on the own account) at cleaning their harness & appointments, & it really is a treat to see them on parade. I do not know what they will say when they find out that they are to be divided up in France, — anyhow, my luck is not so good as theirs, as they will go to a fighting battery but me, — & I would not miss the Spring "stunt" for worlds. I received a "Table Talk", & one or two newspapers from you this week. — Thanks very much, — it's great to read about home news. I am expecting a letter from Kent to-morrow, containing Australian mail. I do hope you are all well. — Give my love to all, & accept the same from. Your loving Son. Norman,


116TH HOWITZER BATTERY 1st February 1917. 1ST DIVL, ARTILLERY, AUS. No 1 Boyton Camp Codford; Wilts England 