
Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth  Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt Date: 25 February 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:    Dearest Mother & all at Home I am glad to say that I  have again received another of your most welcome  letters, also one from dear Mab, also one from Mr Sheldon  at the Mint. I am glad to know that Rupert is well  again & I hope he has started school again. Tell Mab  that I have received her Photo & case alright, also Flos  Robbie's, for which I thank them very much for & I  carry them inside my shirt pocket always. I am not  surprised to read of Bert Handley coming away as he  was always a good soldier, but I must admit that  promotion comes very freely in the latter contingents,  whilst we have to go for all we are worth to keep  our Rank. However we will be first into the  "Scrap" & this is something I would not care to miss  for untold money. My greatest wish will be fulfilled  the very moment we open fire against the Germans.  My gun is in great "nick" & she sings lovely music  when in Action. We have done a lot of shooting  lately & last Monday night, we fired for the  first time at night at 9.45pm. We were rested  all day & at 6.30pm, we harnessed up & moved out in full war strength & conditions.  After marching out several miles into the  Desert, we suddenly came across 4 horsemen, each  20 yards from each other, as soon as each gun  was alongside one of these horsemen, we quietly got  the order "Halt" Action Right" it was a great surprise  but the order was promtly obeyed & the greatest  silence was maintained from the time we left  Camp until we finished up next day. No body was  allowed to speak, except the Sergeants & then no  more than a whisper. We laid our sights on to  two rays of light from lamps about 80 yards in  front of the gun & put the range on. We were right  behind a big hill, so of course, did not know   what we were firing at. Our fire was supposed  to be observed by Air craft, & this was done by  signals flashed by lamps from the Staff from  a neighbouring hill about a mile from us.  My gun fired first; it was a blinging flash,   & a deafening roar & away went our first  shell. Moons gun then got to work & spat fire.  Then came a flashlight signal, an alteration  of 50 yards to our range, & we let loose again  & this time we scored a direct hit with our gun 
as we afterwards learnt. We were the only battery  in our brigade to shoot at night, & Moons and my gun were the only 2 guns to shoot in the battery,  so we are pleased to know that we were the only  battery in the whole division to score a direct hit.  After "Cease firing" we dug our guns in & strongly  entrenched our selves & wagon. We do this by  digging out about 2 feet of earth & putting this  into sand bags, then run the gun & wagon into  it & bank up the earth 4 feet high all around  & just leave room for the muzzle to protrude. Then  we dig trenches each side of the gun pit 5 feet  deep for the detachment to get into when we are  not in action. We made such a good job of it,  that when the General and his staff inspected us  next morning there, he said "Splendid, oh splendid,  "lads". We worked on digging the pit until  3 a.m. that morning (Tuesday) then we walked  over to where our wagon line & horses were bivouaced  & just lie down with a water proof sheet &  blanket & slept till 6 a.m. then finished our   pit & commenced shooting a Brigade shoot,  that is, 3 batteries in Action at once. Our  shooting was sill being observed by Air craft 
so of course we could only tell our shooting was  good by the fact that we kept firing at the  one range & elevation for 14 rounds & they soon  stop us from firing if we get off the target. We are  learning all the new methods of finding the range to a   target in conjunction with an Aeroplane flying at a   prearranged height. It is a little difficult at first, but  ^when one becomes familiar with the work, it comes easy.  Then again, a Battery Commander is only pointed  out his target on a map, & he has to make his deductions  etc & get his battery to work as soon as possible.  We have had to paint our Guns & Wagons an  entirely different color, in fact they are all colors,  they just look like as if some kids have found  some tins of paint of different colors & slapped them  on anyhow. No two spokes are painted the same  color & all sorts of hideous gaudy colors are  slapped on. This sort of thing has been found  most satisfactory in France & it makes it very  difficult for the enemy to pick out the artillery.  from the. We hope to leave here very soon now.  We only get a mail every fortnight now, so   we have to wait longer. By this mail we are   all surprised to see that Capt Bean, who is with the Force as correspondent, has written  home such a pack of deliberate falshoods about the  disgraceful conduct of portion of our troops.  Now, Mother, as you know, I am only too keen to  denounce a drunken brawl or even drunken men,  but I must candidly admit that such conduct  has never taken place in Cairo. In all my travels  in & around Cairo, I have never set my eyes on  anything that other fellows have done in Cairo   that I would not do myself. Of course, I do not  say that there is no soldier gets drunk in Cairo,  but if there is, he is generally put out of sight by his  Pals, otherwise he is locked up by the Military Police.  Beans article has simply staggered us all &  every where in Camp now, cries can be heard for  the hanging or drowning of Bean. Every where it  is being discussed & meetings are being held in  the different messes. The men wearing African  colors are going to take drastic action to make  Bean apologise for sending such lies to the printed  at Home. We can all imagine the way the people  at home think of us all after reading Beans article,  but we earnestly hope that people will read   it with a big grain of salt and disbelieve it. 
Of course, in some Units there are a few wasters  who have had to be sent away, & in addition to  them, there are several who have gone back, very  decent fellows, but who have been returned for such  things as "Refusing Vaccination" of "not likely to become  an efficient soldier" & things of that sort. These  fellows, when they arrive in Australia, are in great  danger of being classed by the Public as "Wasters",   & are probably are some of the most decent chaps  alive. This is where Beans article will do the  mischief. I can only say again, that there was not  the least reason in the world for Bean to write  such a pack of the most unscrupulous lies ever  penned. One of our chaps has written a piece of  Poetry about it & I will try & send you a copy in  this letter. I am very much afraid that, if Bean  does not clear out from Mena Camp, something   unfortunate will befall him. Now for another  subject. We have all been vaccinated again  on account of Small Pox amongst the Arabs, but  I am pleased to say that mine did not take  for the second time. Shower baths have at lot  last been constructed in Camp, so we can get a refreshing shower after a dusty march.  We are still a happy party & thoroughly enjoying  ourselves. Yardley has gone into Hospital with  Influenza, but hopes to be out in a few days.  All the other fellows are well & send their  kindest regards. I haven't got a letter from  George yet, but hope to soon.  I am sorry to see that living is such a   tremendous price in Melbourne at present, & if  you feel the pinch, take as much of my money  as you want & let Mab help herself too.  I greatly appreciate all the kind wishes &  enquiries made of me at home & elsewhere. Give  everybody my best wishes & tell them of my appreciation  of their kind enquiries. I hope Miss Taylor  has let her houses & that she is quite well.  Thank Mrs King for her kind wishes too.  Tell Mab that I am sending by this mail  a set of the Post Cards which she asked for, but  tell her not to think of taking my letters to any of  the daily papers. Tell Jack Tilton that, nobody  places any reliance ofn Neil Gibson joining the  troops on Active Service & are not very keen to  shake him by the hand. 
How are all the Relations? If you write to them  at Winchelsea, tell them that I often think of them &  tell them that I have been successful in getting  Percy Wells transferred from the Ammunition Column  to our Battery & he is getting on fine. He is a   real tip top chap & all the Officers are pleased  with him. Give my love to Aunt Hannah & tell  her I am in my glory. I am glad that Charlie  Hettie & family enjoyed themselves at Dromana &  am glad that George enjoyed his holiday at Creswick.  I hope his business is a great success by now.  I am sending along by registered Post, a Table  centre which I bought in Cairo for you, Mum,  so hope you get it alright. I am often thinking  of the feed we will have on my return. Onion  stuffing must pay an important part in the feed.  Don't forget to tell Mab, that Braith & I still  have the cushions she made for us & are still  appreciated greatly. Now Mother dear, I   must close now (8 pages) with fondest love  to all at home & an extra whack for your dear  self I remain your loving son   Norman. 

Tell Mab that I am   sending the PCs by this Mail  