
Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth Location: Belgium  Date: 3 August 1917
Nationality: Australian

Text:    My dearest Aunt & Mabel.  My heart is just breaking   since the news reached me that our dear   brave soldier boy has paid the price.   You will know the news long before this   reaches you, for I have sent to England   to arrange for a cable to get thro' to you at   once, goodness knows how long it will be before   you hear officially, for there have been many   casualties this past week.- I felt I must   send it to Dad for him to break the news to   you, for I can just understand what it is   going to mean to you, you poor darlings  You have no idea how I feel away   over here, since I've lost both Jack &   Norman & Stew McGowan whom I loved   like a brother, it is almost more than I   can bear when I think, I just have to   work on & forget my personal sorrows.  I am finding it terribly hard to   concentrate my thoughts sufficiently to   write to you to-night, for I have not
recovered from the shock the news gave me,   but I feel I must not lose any time writing   to you, for you have to wait so long for news.  Sgt: Braithwaite called here to see me last   night, I had written to Norm telling him I was   right up near him, & the letter arrived at   the battery two days after he was wounded.   So. Sgt:B. opened it to get my address, for   he had written to me, but didn't know where   to address it, & he brought both letters to me.   He told me poor Norm was wounded just   after they had advanced with the guns   at 7.30 a.m on Sunday July 31st , & the   dear boy only lived a few hours, for he   died at 3 p.m. A shell burst killing several   & wounding others, poor old Norman was   very severely wounded, he was given an   injection of morphia to deaden all the pain,   but the shock would cause unconsciousness   & he was carried to the 96th Field Ambulance   dressing staion, & was unsconscious when he   arrived there, & remained like that till he died   it is my one comfort to know he did not   feel his sufferings, & you must try & be   thankful for that also, seeing he lingered
for a few hours, & not conscious of any pain   is something to know, when one sees as much   of it as I do, it is greatest relief to my mind,   altho' one longs for a last word or message   I would sooner a thousand times do without it   than know the precious words were spoken in pain.  The hardest part for me is to think he could   have called to see me himself last night, had   he been living, for they came out of the line   that evening & were only camped 2 miles away   but I have his grave quite near me Aunt   dear, & I am going to have it done up, the   boys are erecting a cross. Sgt B. told me, then   I will have an official photograph taken of   it for you, that can be done by writing to   England I believe, however I am making   every enquiry, & everything possible I can do   for you all, that I know you would like   done for you dear one so far from home, I will   do, I asked the Padre here, if he would go over   & make all enquiries for me at the Field Amb:   that Norm was taken to, & get all his   personal belongings, but they could not tell   him very much, as the poor dear was never   conscious at all there, but they gave a list   of the things that he had on him, but, they
had been sent on to the Base, so I've written   there to-night for them, & I want to know if   you would like me to chance sending them to   you, or would you  like me to hold them for   awhile, I know how you would value everything   & would not like to lose them, so I will wait   until you can write & tell me, it is of no use   cabling, for I never got the one mother sent,   unless you could cable thro' the Red Cross, you   could enquire if you would like to do so.   I will give you a list of the things Norman   had on him at the time, but of course I have   not got them yet, I am only hoping I will   claim them in time, I am only two days behind.  I will tell you exactly what I can have   done to mark the spot which holds our loved   one, & when we get the photo taken, you will   see for yourself, & if you want anything   more done, I will send you instructions   how you can have it fixed up, but just yet    I cannot give you many details, for I haven't   had time to find out all yet. I am going   across to the grave, the Chaplin is taking me   tomorrow the first opportunity, at present   the weather is atrocious, raining every day   & mud it is awful, & they want me 
to wait until the headstone is up, which will   take a couple of days, but I am just aching   to see the spot, & put some flowers there, if   dear old Norm only could know I was here   with him:- The day he died  I was sent here   & arrived at 7-30 that night (Sunday July 31st  just about 4½ hrs after he passed away.   but of course I did not know anything of it until Aug 2nd when B/ called   & only two miles away, but we were all   sent further back for the Germans were   shelling a village not far away, & the   shells were whizzing over our heads, we   did not return until the following Tuesday   Aug 2nd.  I cannot tell you just where I am in   Belgium, but we are right up where the   noises never cease, & the gun fire is terrific.  Norman is buried at a place called   "Diekebusch" near Ypres, & his burial record   is Sheet 28 - H27-C.2.4  Plot 1  Row A  Grave 19  I really don't know what the Sheet 28 means or H 27.C.2.4.   but you had better copy it all out for   reference at any time, it probably is   something to do with the military, I will   find out, & tell you later, the graves   are well cared for, & kept very nicely 
I do hope this letter reaches you alright, I  will write and tell you everything as I hear   myself, & please dear ones tell them at home   if I don't write to them also, they will know   it is because I can't manage it, & your   letters will do for home as well, for the   work in a casualty clearing station up  near the line is very different to a Base hosp:   & we have to nurse most of our cases   on stretchers on the floor, so imagine how   if our backs feel at the end of a long day.   I do not think I can tell you any more   to-night, my brain won't work any longer   & I'm too tired for anything, I never slept one   wink all last night. I feel worn out with   sorrow at our loss, & for you poor dears   at home, but do try & be a soldiers   brave mother dear Aunt, it is hard I know   & my heart aches for you, but we have to   bear these sorrows, I have met many cases   where a poor mother has lost every son &   as many as five & six of one family, &   you have two left to you yet, dear Aunt.   & now I really must conclude words are   poor comfort I know, the boys of the   battery will all be writing to you also I   suppose. My fondest love & deepest sympathy to   one & all. from your affect: neice May (over 
P.S. There is one thing I forgot to   mention, I sent Norm a parcel of   warm clothes & put a tin of peaches   & cream in it, I asked Sgt.Braith   if he know it arrived, & he said   my peaches & cream was the last   feed dear old Norm had, for the   parcel only arrived the evening before.  You knew I rec: a p.c. from Jack written May 29th  he did not   say much, but said he was well.    I am not telling him that we   have lost Norm, the poor old boy   would feel it too much I am afraid   for they were so fond of one another.

Address.  c/o Aust: Base: P.O.  Mt Pleasant  London  Eng.     No 3. Aust: C.C.S. 