AUSTRALIAN  WAR MEMORIAL  H.M.A.S AUSTRALIA. Off the Court of New Guinea  Monday. August 10th, 1914,    My dear Charles & Helen I have no idea when   I shall have an opportunity of  sending this letter but thought  I would write you a few lines now  as there is no knowing when I   may have another chance of writing.  Of course I have been tremendously  busy getting the ships, coaled   and stored and making all my   plans etc. As far as I can judge  the whole of the German Eastern Fleet  is concentrating off German New Guinea  and I am going there after them  It is a most difficult problem, as the distances are so very great  out here, the problem of keeping  the ships supplied with coal  and oil is a most difficult one  I am now nearly 2000 miles   from Sydney our principal base  and about 500 from Simson Haven  the German base in New Britain  island off the NE Coast of New Guinea  I have with me now "Australia"  "Sydney" and three Destroyers, and   intend to attack Simpson Haven   on Tuesday night the 11th at  about 9-30 just before the moon   rises. I am doubtful if any German  men of war will be there but there  may be some colliers and there   is a wireless station that I want  to Destroy. After that I shall  be very hard up for coal and  oil and shall have to go back  and meet my colliers which are  coming up but I may meet  the German fleet outside in  the morning if I do, I expect  they will make a very good fight  They have two armered cruisers the  "Scharnhorst" and "Gneisenau" which  are quite good, and also three  or four light cruisers. My best   way of protecting the trade is to get  hold of some of these ships if I can  but it is a very difficult problem  with all these immense distances  to arrange for coal & oil. The ships   and Dockyards worked splendidly  to get ready when we were at  Sydney. We came down hurriedly from  Palm islands, arrived on Saturday  and got away again on Tuesday the 4th  I think the war will be a short one  it will be better for everyone if it  is so. With my best love to   you both & Constance and  Mary. I do hope there may be  some improvement shortly.  I remain  Your very affectionate brother  George E Patey  I left Mollie & the children well   but Mollie naturally was rather depressed  I don't know when I shall ever  get any letters    