Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury.
Location: France Date: 27 December 1916
Nationality: Australian

Text:  For the 3rd time in succession Xmas has come & gone & found me in khaki & away from home, and it is impossible to say if we shall be home next Xmas or not - there is still so much to be done.  Germs. are still far from being defeated, and the spirit of the prisoners we get is by no means as “broken” as H.Q. would have the nation believe. Great things will happen not only in the Spring - but before this winter is over - God help the poor unfortunate troops sent over the top in this wet & muddy place. The cold plays hell with us - it is only our stickability in the lines, that keeps us going - we do not relish it at all. The whole period in the front line areas is one of great discomfort, much hardship, & illhealth.  Our boys are only just getting ‘fit’ again to go up in front again after nearly a month's spell. Xmas was spent comparatively quietly - a jolly good feast was provided for the troops - mainly thro' funds of League of Loyal Women, - & football &c. in the afternoon. We will hold sports on New Year's Day - the companies are hard at work training their different teams I miss my old officers very much - during our ‘rest’ we have recd reinforcements  & much re organisation has been done. Beresford has gone to Training Brigade, Loudon to H.Q. Staff - Rule transfd. to B.Co. - & I’ve been given a drunken subaltern (-McLean) “his last chance”. 
& three rftmts. officers - Sheard - Lucas & Packard. They all seem so different to the old lot - always something wrong with them - & by no means as keen or initiative as one would wish.  Its not a nice feeling to be uncertain of them - but I haven’t much confidence in them. I’ve had to do a lot of work that with the old lot never fell on my shoulders - & I’ll be glad when Baynes (away at a school) comes back as Lieut - as he will be a great help. If everything is not as nice as it might be - thank God I’ve got good N.C.Os - most of them were in the old 10th (& C too) at Gallipoli with me. C. Co. is a splendid one - but not up to the one I led on Aug 12th - when we went into action. If we go over the top - they’ll all go - & go hard too - for we have a lot to make up for our fallen mates - Your I.W.W crowd want a few Hun methods applied to them to let them know what Kultur is My second leave falls due on the 29th - but I will put it off till George arrives - & as soon as I know that date will make preparations accordingly.  I would rather have it in the Spring - as I don’t think winter in England would be very pleasant. We are close to Amiens now - but I haven’t gone into the town - where a decent meal, clothing &c costs 100% more to an Australian than others.  I sent my watch in per a bro. officer - for a seconds hand  & new glass.  Charge 10fr. when the whole watch was only worth 45fr - so you see French can beat Scotch or Jews hollow.
27.12.16   Your Xmas parcel has not yet come - tho I got your  cable O.K.  Mrs Trudgen sent along a very nice cake - which  was a great asset to our mess cupboard.  I owe tons of letters all round - but letter writing is  becoming a real task - it takes tremendous effort to get    going - but I must write to Uncle Will as well this mail.  In case I should miss George - in your next letter   let me know what ship he is on.  From what I  know he would gain much navigating experience if out  on patrol & exam duty in Atlantic or Medit - but he  will get plenty of work if he's on a destroyer in the    North Sea.  With the Grand Fleet - I believe it's a rather  a monotonous time as the Canal Fleet doesn't seem  inclined to again venture out into the N. Sea.  I rather hope he goes to the Medit. - for with tin fish  hunting in the Aegean - perhaps bombarding Athens, &  visiting historic & interesting places - he ought to have a  good time - & put up some service ribbons soon.  No more news now - so I'll close with very much love  & best of good wishes to all especially yourselves.  Your loving son  Rollo  I hope you're all as well as I am.