Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Location: Lapland or like it  Date: 29 January 1917
Nationality: Australian

Text:   Dear Father & Mother  Thank heaven Iceland has not yet  declared war, & there is no chance if the A.I.F. being sent there  I have been physically unfit to write letters the last three  weeks - & during that time & more the weather has been terrible.  Just after I last wrote we turned up  into a front area - & with the line - & now we are still under   shell fire - & expect to go in again in a fortnight's time.  I've had four letters from you in this  time - but the cold has been so intense - that altho’ I   tried three times - I could not hold the pen.  Three weeks ago the ground was covered  with mud to any depth - then we had snow - thick  heavy snow & constant too - but anything but artistic  or poetic &c, covering the ground to a depth of 9 inches  & more.  Fortunately, in many ways, we have been having  hard continual frosts lately, & everything is frozen hard   all day long.  I never knew what 'cold' really is -  until our past few weeks.  As soon as we take our  fingers out of gloves (they are frost-bitten) - & our feet get frozen unless we keep  up violent exertion to keep the circulation going.  The water in the shell holes is coated with over   9" of ice - & if these holes were only better connected  we could get up skating parties.  Any water poured  on the ground freezes at once & our footing is rather  treacherous. 

The roads a fortnight ago were knee deep in mud but are  now frozen as hard as asphalt.  Anyone who has to 'hop over' at this time of the year   has an awful time to dig in - for the top 18" of the soil  is frozen as hard as concrete.  That is one reason why  we are not advancing - not because of the cold or  the enemy - but because of the impossibility of being    able to dig in adequately against the certain shell fire.  I've seen Bapaume from a distance - we were in  that particular, valley during our 3 weeks tour of the  front areas, & are now in immediate support (close)  for another 3 weeks & then we go right round again  I got a note from Will Drury - forget his address  but the Divy is somewhere this wa.  He said some of  their men had 20 days leave in England  - & I think  its a shame the men who have been fighting so long  get least leave.   I've some men (about 70) with over  9 mths minimum service, who haven't had any leave  let alone a trip to Blighty - Thank god- I’m not  one of the "dinkums" or a "hypersuper dinks" either  Most of the Rfts we get now are Compuls. volunteers  so after all they can be classed as ‘conscripts’.  Our last tour didn’t get us many casualties - but  we're still under shell fire - & will  be in the thick of    it in a few days.  Tell Jim O'Connor I am sorry to hear of his bad luck. 
A married man should not be sent to this war,  it is unfair to his wife & children for him to come  to this sort of play  I applied to - to get Stanway transferred to us  but I got word he'd again had to go to Hosp, & was  very sick too.  He was a splendid fellow - a great  ‘bomb thrower’, and an acquisition to any unit.  Sorry to hear about Cog. - even we have not   had the full strength of that "stunt" yet  - it   was officially called a "Successful raid" -  but it was   known that an Aust Div. got so smashed that it  isn’t fit yet & has since been engaged in trench   duty.  The G.O.C. concerned has been displaced, &  many O.C. returned to Australia - so it seems to   have been a very unfortunate affair indeed. (Fleurbaix)  Many of the men who were wounded on 12 Aug   are coming back now - but we’re a long way off    having the old G. back.  My drunken sub. has   been transferred to the ’dinkums’ so one of my worries  I nicked my ankle in the confounded mud - not   bad enough to go to Hosp, but enough to make me  wary - & I still feel it at times.  Let me know definitely when G will arrive  I put off my leave (28.12) so as to suit him - but  if I don’t hear I’ll take leave about the end of Feb, as it won’t do to put it off longer. 
It does one good to hear G is physically fit -  even if he is wearing his jaw in a sling  I’m writing to Lieut Hill inviting him to  enlist before compulsion comes on - so I will stop   this letter.  I hope you had a good time in Adelaide, &  that if you are there next midwinter, I may be  back  again with my job successfully finished.  I hope Dad gets his teeth fixed up O.K. & that  everything is satisfactory.   Best of all good wishes, & much love to  you all from  Your loving son,  Rollo.   2 Letters to cousins J & H   sent out later - written  about same date.