
Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Date: 28 March 1916
Nationality: Australian

Text:


Nothing much,
Hancock has to get to Cario tonight so Im getting him to send a cable along. My captainy
dates from 1.3. 6 and I am a liddy to be a company C.O
but I hape prvidence will guide me anght in my get
if only for my men's sakes. I have a pretty fair company
but Ive had to do a lot of straping to work it up to effrai
Ju Smith an old S.M. & I school mate is if in command
to me while noe Contit (same school) is our Adntant an
a good man he is too
my ideal commander as now Moger werket he is a fir
chap like a by brother to me, with his advice and
helping hand. If I copy Herbest I won't for wrong.
and he is unowalled for military capanty ther
wt to me is Havoy Thomson (Raodes Scholar) an Exq ten

fellow, & one that Balliol must very proud of producing Our Battn (50th) is a very fine one.  Officers are a tip-top lot with Hurcombe & Jacob at the head - well we have a splended Esprit de corps already. Six of us are old 79th - Smith, Gore, English, Auld, Clark & myself) - and the 79th record is excellent - only one of the old officer is not on war service - only 3 are still in S. A., & about 80% of the boys are here.  We've lost Green & Holmes - but their names will never go - they lived & died like men. By the time I get your reply to this, I expect we will be at work again.  I can tell you it causes queer feelings to glance at one's company, & realises that it is a mere "war machine" and as yet untried. One sees weak part - rectifies & strengthens them, but of course we cant pick out all the defects that 'war' will develop The responsiblity of a C.O. is great for it depends on the training, especially the full amount of energy at a pinch - which will prove my work.  I know the men are O.K. individually but I wonder if my training will teach them collectively to do their darndest at the right job, & at the right time.  I won't know this till we face the music again - & I pray God that my methods will cause my machine to do its job efficiently.  If I do this I will be well satisfied in having done my little share in helping to crush the Huns. If I fail it will not be through want of trying anyhow.
We leave here on the 31st to get the other side of the Canal - to complete training [[?]]  get thoroughly fit - tho as we have been wandering round the desert for several days, route marching with full packs up, we are already in tip top condition In a short time I will be supplied with a horse. C.O. are mounted now-a-days - and I hope I get a good nanto - as a C.O. hasn't time to spare to do circus tricks or try colt breaking I enclose a snap of the Prince of Wales. The officer waving the crowd back is our warrior G.O.C. General Cox - & just by the P.W. to rear is. Gen. Birdwood I'm sorry the details of this snap are not clearer - but I prize it very much. Major Herbert developed and printed it for me. I've recd. five long letters (Feb 20th) & it is 'great' to get home news, - you can't realise how eargerly I look forward for the letters. I'm afraid I'm getting a poor correspondent - but my job occupies all my time. Wumps & George, will have to excuse my non-writing I shall try to send a few lines before the 31st I wrote to Dr Schulz & Wiill Kimber - but I'd owed them letters for a long time. Remember me to any who enquire. Glad that Parcel No 1 got you O.K. - hope No 2 comes to hand too Good wishes & much love fr Rollo