Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Location: Anzac Cove.  Date: 18 July 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:

  I've got some ink as you see.- Got an ink tablet  from a returned officer. Have met the greater part of  my men, but 3 or 4 others are missing too. Hayes  my champ. at bayonet - & anchor man in tug of war  has been picked out for a machine gun course, & Raven  whose boy I taught at Norwood will probably be sent  back for physical inability. Goode is somewhere in Hosp  2 Hulceslaters are down with some complaint, Cummins missed  the train - & Winter is a moral derelict in V.D. Hospital.  We are a pretty strong battalion now - but we have a very  extensive and important position to hold. Many of us fee  l the strain already but at each week end we are going  to change watches & shifts- so that the nines will get a  certain amount of relief. The Turkish bombs have
appreciably scarce lately to our relief, but we have such  a supply that for every one we receive we give back two.  Also we have erected at our worst bombed place a wire  netting screen, which we hoist up every night. Candidly  I don't think much of this as a bomb-stopper- but the  moral assurance it gives the men is great, & it is worth  putting up even for that reason.  My chum officers in Aussie were going to post me  up in mil. news - but not a word have I heard.  Paul & his crew are in Egypt now, & we expect to  see them soon. I hope you got that enlarged  photo. from Marchant of my 5th reinforcements.  My arm is pretty stiff today- inoculated against  cholera just now. We have now been inoc. 3  times, & vaccinated once - and one of my boys  today whilst going through the mill - remarked  "we only need to be inoculated with concrete and  we would be shrapnel proof too". My original  batman, Scott, is once more with me, & it is fine  to have my things well looked after & my meals  well cooked again. He is a good fellow and I hope  he pulls through O.K. I will close now with best  love - hoping all are well as I am.  26.7.15  Here we are in a new series of trenches - tunnelled  out underground from our old lines. We have advanced  our firing line about 100 yds, and we are only a  few yards away from well concealed Turkish trenches 
We are now having bomb warfare pure & simple - rather  pure & serious. Jacko has just about got superiority at  present but we expect to turn things a bit before long.  The moon just now is too bright & rises in their favour  so we get particular hell from their bombs at this  point - Their throwers are under cover & well out of  sight so that our rifle-fire is wasted over them - our  fuse bombs they laugh at, & we can only stop them  by sending them huge charges of gun-cotton.  Last night or two we regained superiority again  but three of my men were wounded today. Hughes  & Edwards were only 5 yds. away - the former was most  frightfully mauled - I tried to stop the bleeding - but  he was cut everywhere - and I was glad when the  doctor came  McDonald, another of my men, was in a narrow  recess with three others when a bomb landed. If it  had gone off the 4 would have been outed. but  Mac cooly took up a 'lucky' greatcoat, covered the  bomb, & put all his weight on the coat - so that he  smothered the bomb. I have reported this matter  & McDonald should get the D.C.M.  I have been transferred to the Platoon No.9 -as  Jack Hamilton has returned & taken over No.10. These  platoons are 'twins' - nearly all Br. Hill men - and  in firing line together so the transfer is nominal. 
Anyhow I've had this lot a fortnight now and  get on well with them all - as it is in an efficient state  Getting to know the men is the chief thing - once that is  done - discipline & so on follow. I have seen & still see  many officers much senior to me, having a most miserable  time - simply because it is too much 'fag' to find out  something about the men under them  I have 9 of my old originals - as well as some 6 of  old B company - Ascot Park - so that ¼ of my Platoon  knew me pretty well from the jump. About 30 of the  5th Rein. are in this Company. Rainey (Scott's Creek)  was outed by a bomb the other day - The Turks will  get bombs when we get at them with the bayonet.  Trench work does not agree with Australians. The  general condition of our chaps after 'summer' in the  trenches is pitiable - God help us if we have to do  the winter here. If we were asked to advance now  I candidly believe we would not get past the first  Turkish trench - we seem to lose our dash - with  too much 'digging' & fatigue, night watching, living  underground, tinned salt meat &c - the constitution of  the men has been much undermined. There are  persistent rumours of the 1st Div. being withdrawn  to reorganize & recuperate. It is necessary, but most  of us prefer to see this thing through come what may.  Some big move is going to be made soon, and 
we want to be in it. I'm certain we can never  get this peninsula now by force - something will  have to go wrong with Turkey - internal dissension,  starvation, or intrigue are our best assets.  Otherwise we're certain to lose 1/3 of our men.  We've made the same mistake as in S.Africa. -  not enough men at the jump to carry on after  a favorable start. The Admiralty must bear the  chief blame - the demonstrations of Feb. & March  put the acid on the military question. On Feb 26  the 'Triumph' had an observation station on  Achi Baba!! Now we're struggling for that hill -  and certain of our guns are limited to 4 shots  a day. Ian Hamilton is supposed to have gone  home for a rest - & Smith Dorrien is supposed to  be here - but I don't know if these rumors are O.K.  My O.C. received more than 20 applications from  my old 'G.' boys to be transferred to my platoon - and  he 'shut the lid' on the lot- so that I can't get  an old 79th who wanted to come to me.  We look forward to mails more eagerly than  a civilian does regarding Sunday, we get them  about every 10 days or so. My mails have all come  through & I am content. It is helpful to get your  inspiring letters, & I've had word from Tom Pitman,  Fred Hamish, & Carthew lately.
Rollo.
