Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Date: 17 August 1916
Location: Poizieries
Nationality: Australian

Text:

  One thing I did was to stop a panic in another officer's company - nuf sed - but I will tell you about it when I get back - or if my luck is out Lieut. Rule can give you details of Aug 12 to 15.  Sgt. Nuttall could tell you all about it - & especially a particular part near Moquet Farm - but please don’t mention the name of  Ch…l Sm-h-th to me - Honors are demerited by bad awards - but ‘nuf sed' at present.  I am well content to have a whole skin, & hope I can get through other stunts as well.  God grant it. I have re-trained my Co. and when we go in we’ll make things hum I can tell you. Lehman, Johns, & McEwin are O.K - &  I’ll write later.
 of the other three Companies under Rule & myself.  On our right – the other three Batts failed – so that I  & my three Cos. were perched in the air.  I tried hard to get the men dug in - but after  30 minutes of hell – & vain endeavour – (with open  flanks) – I gave the word to get back to our line.  I lost 43 men in a very short hour !!!  All that night Fritz rained angry shells on us, & all  the next day too. It was terrible – but we held fast.  At 9 p.m. we were relieved, but even there our  troubles did not end - we were shelled all the way home,  & had a corporal buried. Altogether C lost 105 men –  19 killed – 16 missing (blown to bits mainly) & rest wounded.  Scott was badly hit – I doubted whether he would  get to the ambulance. I had just promoted him.  Our boys earned their name – "The Fighting Fiftieth".  4 - days of hell - 4 nights of double HELL , on one  issue of water, and half a dozen biscuits!!!  I am satisfied my training was O. K. – the boys  were well tried - & the trial proved them true & brave.  Anyhow we've opened the way to Mouquet Farm, &  perhaps to Thiepval as well.  God guarded me – for I was reckless at times –  and I hope in 10 days' time He will again help me.  Much love & best of all good wishes from  Your loving Son  Rollo-

Second stunt – (14.5.16)  Contd .  Poizieries 
Omitted letter 25.8.16 (Go back to 60) begun on 66 (Continuation)   France