
Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Date: 25 May 1915
Location: Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:
  My marching orders have come a bit sooner than  expected, for I notified that tomorrow at 5 a.m. I  am to start out.  I am returning with 115 wounded to  the front, some beauties among them so I am  anticipating a rough time.  There is one comfort as  Ireland is going up with 65 - remainder of his reinforcements  This place (Cairo) is absolutely rotten - Bean's statements   are correct in every detail.  Frank White has been returned from the Dardanelles -  to Heliopolis Hosp, suffering from Rheum. fever.  Stan & I heard by chance that he was there, & made  time to see him.  He was looking pretty miserable  when we went him - but left him more cheerful.  I feel losing touch with my men almost as much  as the loss of Gordon Munro.  I have put in many of  my best hours with them - & heard General Spens-  (G.O.C. Egypt) state at his inspection that the 5/10 were  a very satisfactory & efficient body - so you can  imagine what a pill it was to take away absolute  strangers.  My old men feel it too, & got up a petition  to get away with me - but this is so unmilitary that  I stopped it.  So after wearing my heart out - Feb 10  to May 25 - I have to leave my men.  They are a  very fine lot, & I am awfully disappointed at leaving  them - it cuts into me very deep indeed.  I am afraid I am unlikely to do my duty to you as a  son, for I must confess our chances of coming back  from the front are very small.  I have done my best 
to better myself, and so do my share to help you  along.  You have schooled me, and until I was 20  years old I was relying on your help - & it is only since  I have been in the military that I have been able  to fix myself up.  It is rather hard to think that  just when I should be doing my best for the  home our Empire gets thrown into the throes of this  terrible war.  I foresaw everything when I volunteered  & I feel more keen than ever to get away to the front  - I have Gordon to avenge - & my keenness has only  been slightly blunted by leaving my men - but  Ireland's company to a certain extent counteracts that.  I did not get much time to see Cairo - the Citadel  and the mosques were all I visited.  If anything happens my trunk is at Thos. Cook & Son  Cairo - & they will forward when you write.  It  contains bank-book - & about £22 in a tin box - my  clothes, books &c.  I will write again as soon as I get a chance, hoping  it will be my luck to get back. Good fortune, good  health, happiness & prosperity I wish you all.  Let Bema - George & Harry read this letter.  Box is addressed  Lieut- H.E.S. Armitage  5th Rein. 10th Infantry  3rd Brigade  A. I. Force  Address letters  10th Battn.  3rd Brigade  1st Aust. Division.
Rollo.

[*Base Details Helmich  May 25th 1915.*] 