
Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Location: At Sea Near Gallipoli Date: 27 May 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:   Harry's birthday brought me good luck for I shifted  from the worst hole on God's Earth after 4 days stay,  I have a pretty tough job as the men consider themselves  the head, & as I am the 'nipper' of the crowd of officers  I am somewhat at a disadvantage.  They are a mixd  crowd - but I will soon hand them over, & anyhow I  have tamed them considerably.  I will get one of the  ships officers to post this - I'm afraid my future corresp.  will be confined to printed cards.  I could let you have lots of news - but as my letter  might get into wrong hands it would be useless to  write much. - I am hopeful of pulling through, and  will then tell you fully.  Anyhow history will tell  what a fine fight our boys are putting up, & if  we do go down you can rely that we've all done  our best for King & Country.  Give my love to all the relatives & Houghton folk  I can't write to them - but they are not forgotten.  I had no time to get curios, &c. in Cairo - too  busy fixing up my men, but there are badges, my  stars, &c, in that tray in my trunk - also a little ivory  Elephant I picked up at Colombo.  Harry will like it.  I was disappointed at being moved on without  receiving any home mail - but I will get it sometime.  Things are only middling with us.  I must  not state what is in or on the water - but tomorrow  we land, & I hope in a day or two to meet your  old school-mate - Col. Weir. - Giles is much alive.  It may be some time before I write again- I  don't know how to close this letter for I feel.

At the sea near Lemnos.
Just a wee bit 'funny' while writing this.  But  at all times I have endeavoured to do my duty to  you, & struggled hard to be a credit to you.  Thank God that I have parents who brought  me up in such a way that I have a bit of backbone  I have always tried to live up to your advice, Dad.  "Never do what you'd be ashamed for Mum & Bema to  know" - & altho' I'm not perfect - I have nothing  to hide from anyone.  I intended to send you a list of my men so  that you could look them up after the war -  but time has been against me  I can't write what I feel - it is a bit hard to  do so when the guns are firing only a few miles  away. - so I'll close now - wishing you all the  best of good luck. -Rollo

On trawler  Am getting to front 1 day ahead of Stan  Have to be my own censor.  Instruct anyone writing to address 10th B  3rd Brig.  Let Boltons know.