
Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury

Location: Anzac Cove Lone Pine

Date: 24 September 1915 
Nationality: Australian

Text:  Last Aug 5 I mentioned we were in for a big action & expected it might lead to a general advance allround We waited for 3 days hourly expecting to be sent to take up a position on San Barr (or Gun Ridge) about 1 1/2 to 2 miles ahead. The chief objective was Hill 971 (the Mt Lofty of the whole hill system here) If we could get & hold that, we hoped to be in a dominating position as far as operations here were concerned From various indications we knew there was a big move being made elsewhere - for our Naval dept. had been particularly busy, and our gullies terraced & manned by many reserve troops not Australians. One certain day these reserves as we thought them were moved right round to the left so that on Aug. 6th we had an army landing at Suvla Bay, & many fresh men on our left. At 4.30 p m. the action started - our Artillery concentrating on certain objectives, The 1st Brig. was on our (10th) left. (only about 100 yds from C. Co.) & on their left was the 2nd Brigade The 1st had in front of them Dead mans Plateau leading to Lone Pine Hill - about 200 yds. in front of the line. We could see that the Turks had 3 lines of trenches on Lone Pine - a rise of 20 in 100 yds, & on the left top there was another trench - German Officers Trench At 5 pm. so as to draw the Turks to our end we
made a demonstration - then a few minutes later a L.H. Brig on our left right made a feint, & then just at 5.15 out went the 1st Brig. (2nd Battn on our immediate left) to take the 4 trenches to their front. Meantime the 3rd L.H, the 4th Batt, & the N.Z. troops assisted by some Tommies had [[marched?]] out, and were attacking the ridges just below 971. How they got on I will tell you later - but I will now give a brief description of the Lone Pine Fight I was busy controlling the 'covering fire' of the 10th when the 2nd Battn took the first trench & as they were also somewhat to our rear I did not see that part of their work. I caught glimpses of the fight for 2nd & 3rd trenches. The Turks in our front were evidently thoroughly scared or many were called away to hold the 'Pine' - for the fire in front of us appreciably declined & all we could see in front of us was an occasional pair of arms as Johnno fired his  rifle over the parapet without any aim at all I then had an idea of what loss of 'morale' means & I feel certain that having gained fire superiority that if we had been "allowed" to go out we would have taken Jockos first line without much loss, & as our boys were keen & confident it is a great pity we did not go out. Never had of seen such
enthusiasm - cooks- fatigue parties - etc. were all up in the lines, & it only needed the word 'GO' to start us - & I guarantee that in five minutes there wouldn't have been a live Turk on either of the two ridges in front of us. The third ridge & valley we knew nothing about - it was because of our ignorance of these we were kept back. (I believe Munro lies out in the second valley to our front. - The Valley of Despair - so Holland of the 13th Battn told me - but as I also heard he was killed on one of the hills flanking the Beach I am a bit sceptical - anyhow Munro lies somewhere beyond the Turkish lines.) The 2nd Battn took the first Lone Pine Trench with comparatively little loss - but as they left that trench to get the second - they got it 'hot'. Machine guns were on them from all directions, & communication trenches were unusable owing to bombs - so our chaps had to go 'overland'. About 30 yds. in front of the trench they came to wire. - The few planks they brought were insufficient, & the guns had not cut the 'wire' so that no gaps could be found. The machine guns simply mowed our boys down like hay until they made a gap through which they rushed. The next difficulty was to get into the trench 
for the Turks were covered in with extra strong  bomb proof shelter- their thick overhead cover had  not been hurt by our heavy bombardment. You  may imagine how we felt to see our boys moving  up & down looking for an opening, & all the time  being sniped & bombed. The din, dust, & smoke were  frightful, occasionally we would get glimpses of  an Aussie firing his rifle into the Turkish trenches  with his barrel out of sight poked through the covering or loophole - others were trying to take  off the overhead cover by lifting the planks to.  I dont know how they did it – but the second  trench was taken. Then the other Aussies had  fought their way up the communications with  great losses (hand to hand fighting) but being  soon reinforced - set out 'overland' to No 3. Here they met the same trouble cross fire from M.G, rifles, bombs, shells, & turnout wire followed  by overhead covers. I saw a score or so go up  & down till they found a breach, then one with his bayonet well down & jumped in to certain death probably, for by this time the Turks had their rear trenches choc a bloc with men. Anyhow his mates followed the first man & I guess they soon made a stir down below After this the 3rd trench was fairly in our hands 
and now an attempt was made on German  Officers’ Trench out of our sight. This trench was  not very big - but was crammed with bomb-throwers  & covered by machine guns on other positions, so that  with barbed wire it was a very stiff position &  this attack failed.  The fighting kept on for around the 3rd trench  there were scores of commun. trenches - full of Turks  & bombs - yet to be won - others had to be barricaded  against constant counter attacks which lasted for  4 days, and will never hear the exact number  of casualties. Both the 1st & 2nd Brigades had  to be withdrawn for the total number of fit men  left was under 1500 - One of N.S.W. battalions  finished up with only 2 officers - Geof Prisk was  wounded again - (Capt. now) & troops had to be  called in from everywhere as we had a hard  job to hold Lone Pine. I had seen several  actions - but this was a battle - although it  was only a minor one to hold the Turks from  971 & vicinity. The 10th suffered a few casualties  but nothing compared to the colossal losses of others.  I have been in badly bombed positions at times - but the bombs thrown in this action were not  to be counted - I will leave a further descript.  till tomorrow - 2 Parcels O.K. May go to Egypt to  re-fit - & possibly may see Boltons after all. Rollo