
Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Location: ANZAC COVE Egypt Date: 30 September 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:   Don’t put any extracts of mine in paper unless  you omit all names - (my own especially) - and  also all names of units concerned. I was shown  a S.E. Times with an article “Enlist” - in it by  a S.A. officer & of course only Stan Ireland or  myself are the only ones concerned. It was not  my article - so Stan must bear the blame -  He was the very last type of man to have cause  to write such a letter - for he left here 2  months ago, with practically nothing wrong with  him. I am sorry to say he was about in  disgrace to a certain extent - for twice he was  found asleep in his watch, - many of us think  he got such a stirring up from Col. S.W., that  he had to get away. He also had nothing to his credit with the 4th Rein. &as Shaw also  had something to say about his slackness -  S.I.’s name is now MUD in this Battn.  It is officially known he was in Hosp. 2 days  1 to go in - & 2nd to go out. - since then he has  been holidaying in Egypt. As S.I. says “there  will be some tales to tell after” - but they won’t  be much to his credit - or of others of his kidney.  He has had the cheek to put such in the Times  too as tho he was a sufferer!! I have written  to Mowbray to state I had no connection with his  article. 
Don’t think I’m grumpy - but one feels a  bit touchy when only 17 out of 36 officers are  with us - many of the about 19 are my seniors  and our promotion is blocked whilst they are  jaying about in Cairo tc. I’ve been here 4 calendar months now - and  am feeling very fit still - tho’ I don’t think  I could do a fast 200 yds. without being blown.  I am known as the “ barbed wire expert” - but  I don’t take any more risks than my men do -  My description of Lone Pine & 971 must wait  now - I was switched off, by being asked if  I was the author of that article - & I’ve had  to blow off steam a bit. I will try & finish  the description next week. Love tc tc. Rollo