Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Location: Mouquet Farm
Date: 2 September 1916 
Nationality: Australian

Text:

 and then we got particular blazes. The Huns almost  levelled our trench and I was very glad when help was  called for from the Quarry & my Company had to help out.  Crossing No Man’s Land from E. to Quarry in daylight under  concentrated machine gun fire was no joke - but it was better  than waiting in E.F. for sudden & sure death.  I can tell you I nearly gave up hope of ever leaving  Park Lane E.F. and I was thankful when we had to hop  out in the open to help at the Quarry. Later on after  many good men had been killed (or buried in E.F. the  troops - or those who were left were withdrawn to the main trench.  Park Lane was 500 yds long - and a minimum depth of 7’  at 7 a.m. was by that time (noon absolutely blown in along  its whole length - except for a very few yards.  We were continually being buried in dirt thrown up by the  Jack Johnsons - & the crash and ‘crump’ of them as they  burst - well to have one of these every 10 seconds - absolutely  dazed some of the boys. The earth literally shook - and I  was more afraid of the trench (9’ deep) collapsing and  burying us alive than of the shells - but the roar!!!  it was awful!!! One of my S’gts (Nuttall) had his eardrums  split - he hung on for 2 days without seeing the M.O. but  he had to come in & has been sent to Hospital: The M.O.  has personally spoken to the Brigadier concerning Nuttall’s  work - it was splendid - and I am hoping to see Nuttall  get some decoration. 8 of my boys were mentioned for the


72
Just a line to let you know I'm in England -   at the above address - arrived here night of 18th.  The vastness of London is impressive - but the buildings,   will, with the exception of the historic ones like the   Abbey & St Paul's - they're nothing to get excited about.  I've already visited most of the places of interest here   and intend going to Liverpool on the morning of 23rd.  On the 19th I spent much cash on clothes - my   Egyptian stuff was too thin & light for murky,  misty, foggy London - and as I wanted a complete   rig out it was a very opportune time for getting one. On same day had the good fortune to meet Major   Giles - (shell shock & slight wound) Fowler & Hancock,  just convalescent from wounds, Blackburn V.C. just from Hospital - McCann M.C., - & Capt. Huscombe  [[?]], Clark, Gordon Cornish, with myself on leave -  so we had a splendid time.  You can imagine the pleasures of that impromptu   meeting - there were 4 groups of us - all arrived  at the Trocadero within 10 minutes of each other,  & you can guess such an unexpected reunion was   a splendid & exciting event.  Yesterday I visited the Abbey - but was disappointed   - a service was on so I stayed through it & then

N. France  Good news - but a surprise, but I'm off to England for 8 days on the 18th.  That will give 3 days London 3 in Lpool, & I hope 2 in Edinburgh - Time is short - so I'll have to move I am tremendously excited at present and have written to Boltons telling them.  My word I'll be glad to get away. My last letter told you we had left the Somme front - & we are now on the Belgian front ready to go into the Ypres salient.  Some of our boys are in there already & when my leave is over it'll be our turn. The Co. is in A.1. condition - & everything looks lovely just now I've just had your mail July 14th Wumps complains too that she hasn't heard - but I daresay about the time you mean we were getting in from Sinai, & embarking for France - otherwise I wrote regularly - often twice a week. I got those "Australia Day" photos but no mail - so I hope it comes before tomorrow night - as I expect to be away by midnight Don't take any notice of silly rumors - I've been knocked out 3 or 4 times according to outside accts. but it's all gas.  McAnna & others stopped writing because they'd heard I'd got it at Moquet Farm - but if anything goes wrong the Def. Dept. will let you know quickly enough.  Its been my misfortune not to get any honors out of my two stunts - but I won't blow my trumpet & ask for decorations like some folks have done.

73  
and several will get M.M. too for that lot.  Well when we got to the Quarry I had to send a bomb  team there - half a dozen men somewhere else - and then  the others were told to sit down & wait until they were  needed. However we were not needed - the line held tight.  Under cover of night the Canadians relieved us, and  the whole Brigade was pulled out. All the A.I.F. has  left the Somme area and are re-fitting here.  The 13th Brigade (Ours) lost very heavily - daylight stunts  always end that way. and we gained great Kudos for our  work. In my opinion this stunt was nothing compared  with the work we did on Aug 12-14.  However folks now realise what a stiff job was given  to the 50th that time - the whole Brigade found it a  very stiff proposition on Sept 2 - 3 - and from the bottom  of my heart I am glad we met such opposition, it  showed that our Battn had done marvellous work on  Aug 12 - 14.  Well - a queer reaction sets in after such fierce work, and  I find it hard to concentrate on anything - I’ve found this  letter extremely difficult to write. I believe "Leave" starts soon.  I am looking forward to it very much. for I am getting  very "stale." Physically I am O.K. - but a short relief from  the constant strain of C. O. would do me good. Leave is due.  No more news - so close with best wishes & much love.  Rollo.