
Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Location: TEL EL KEBIR Date: 1 March 1916
Nationality: Australian

Text:
  As I  have been foretelling, great alterations have   been made in our  Army - it has doubled its number of  units - & now we form 5 Divisions - & with the N.Z.  have two complete Army Corps of Infantry. Of course  we have not yet been trained as such - but the movement  towards reorganization is well under way, with the   result that in common with other veteran battalions  the 10th has been split. In our Battn. there was  not much heartburning on leaving - except the loss of  the old number and name. - B. was such an   impossible C.O. , that no one had any love for him.  The 50th has the better half of the officers of the  10th.   The men are about equal - and the N.C.O.s are not  quite up to the old gauge. Yesterday we recd. the   11 & 12 Rfts . for the 10th to make up our strength.  -& their N.C.O.s retain their stripes - which is rather an   injustice to the Anzac N.C.O.s who have been in  many cases superseded. I am going to run an N.C.O. class  in order to get things A1., so that they may improve.  On Parade ground work of course the new N.C.O. may  beat the Anzac men - but on Service give me the   man who earned his stripes at Anzac - he’ll do me,  so you can understand my sympathy for them.  It is hard luck to see men who did not enlist till  comparatively lately - stuck up over one’s head. 
I'm acting O.C. of C. Company - a most arduous job at the present time - tons of work to be done - but it's being done - and we are gradually getting normal out of chaotic  conditions. - but there is always the prospect of some capt from the 2nd Div, being bumped in on top of me. The 32nd Battn are lying not far from here - it's a compos. of S.A. and W.A. - & Coghill has already made it pretty hot for some officers, who were well known in S.A. by report as not being quite the most energetic.  Cog. won't  stand any loafing - hence his stirring up methods. Result some have had the "preposterous cheek" to apply for transfers to a battalion like this which is more than half Anzac - but these "hyper-super-dinks" of the 32nd have colossal cheek.  It's rough that men who have only just enlisted - (Sept & later) who have had no active service - can apply to transfer to us after our whack of hardships & active service - and the Battn will be ruined if such transfers are made We are awaiting the next few days' results very keenly, & great will be the row if we're superseded, I ought to get my Captncy. altho' we don't know yet what other officers are coming to the Battn.  Hurcombe is O.C.  Major Jacob 2/ in Com, Loutit Adj - Moule Q.M., while Seager, Herbert, Hancock, Wilton, Fowler, Smith, Dryden, Clark & myself have come from the 10th. Rowe of 79th is in 51st (Adj) - & Lorenzo D.S.O. is O.C. 49th.
Rollo.
