Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Location: Rouge Croix North France Date: 16 June 1916
Nationality: Australian

Text:  Dear Father & Mother,- My last letter finished off I think where we were in the S. Adriatic.  We continued our zig zag course right into Malta and back to the N. end of Sicily.  I hoped we would go through Str. of Messina especially if night - time to see odd Stromboli or Etna which show up fine. The coasts of all the Medit. islands are rough & barren-looking - Malta especially, but Sicily showed more vegetation.  Sardinia was passed at night, & we arrived off Toulon a rough rugged sort of place late that afternoon but we made & berthed at Marseilles during that night. Mar. looked an excellent natural harbor - & with breakwaters & engineering skill has been made an ideal port. Next morning we 'debarked' and marched 2 miles to camp. You can't imagine how strange it was to be back in civilization again, to see respectable people, civilized houses, walk along real roads with grass & trees it was all so marvellous we were in a regular whirl for a while. We had a perfect little camp near the shore on the side of a hill under fine shady trees, a most beautiful spot.  The boys were given leave and only 4 were A.W.L next morning not so bad, as the boys had just had a full pay, had a terrific thirst, & in other ways Mars. is a bad as Cairo 
It was a pity one got so physically tired on such a trip for really this was a beautiful excursion for a full minded man.   We get some fine cherries and hope to get more later, - the first I'd had for years it seemed.  We would halt 3 times a day - (one hour each stop) while the men were fed & provided with hot water for their tea, so we did fairly well. We detrained at a place near Hazelbrouk at midnt. and then marched 4½ miles to this village, where we are billeted.  We are about ¼ of dist between Hazel. & Ypres, Armentieres is about 8 miles off, and all day long we can 'hear them at it' - so probably before long we will be in it too. Our old 10th Battn is in the trenches just west of A. so we have been able to get a little news from them.  They have had a pretty rough time, but as they have given Fritz a harder time - things are not so bad with them. We are close to the Belg. border, and most of the people in this village are Flemish.  They have some interesting tales to tell of the eight day in Oct. 1914 when the Huns over-ran this part.  Living results exist of their visit, & now we realise what 'war' means in one's country & the boys will fight like hell when their turn comes 
It is sad to see so many women in black.  The one in our billet, has two youngsters (her brother's children) to look after, as he was killed early in the war. The only males about are children, youths up to 17, & old men, some of the latter without an arm or a leg - old veterans of 1870. We are able to view the ravages of war, with an unbiassed mind at present - and war is a most devilish & hellish thing "Sailly" Tuesday 20.6.16. I wasn't able to finish this note last Friday & the next day we recd. orders to move on here - about 9 13 miles from Rouge X - a nice day's march. We are now reserves to the firing line & that is the 10th Already I have seen many of the old boys, & you can't imagine what reunions we have & will hold during the days in this district.  At the end of the week we move up to the support lines - (billets still) - but right among shells & gas. The latter is a real factor here - 3 gas alarms last week & several casualties too - on one occasion travelled over 10 miles Artillery & aerial torpedoes kick up hell's delight, & at night machine guns bark till artillery shut them up. The country is low lying, trenches impossible, so only Breastworks possible.  I've seen Coffey & Minagall, & am intending to visit the front to see Weir, Giles &c. in a day or two. Well - I'm dog-tired so will close with best of all good wishes, much love, & hopes you are as well as, Rollo.