
Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Date: 17 August 1916
Location: Pozieries
Nationality: Australian

Text:

  Since last writing to you – I have been to HELL and  have had the luck to get back again. I am not in a mood for writing so will stop – & finish later on  Well anyhow we’ve had our first Big Action as the  50th Battn. - and we got rather singed, though we were  successful in getting the objective.  We left . . . . . on 12th. Aug. in morning in fighting  order for certain support trenches. Little did we think  that a few hours' time would see us 'over the top'  & well into a Hun's trench – still we got over – & some  of us have come back.  When we arrived at the support trenches we got  orders to go up to some trenches N. W. of Pozieries – & at  10.20 p.m. we had to hop out & at them  We set out for the jumping off place, & got along  very well until within ½ mile of the front – & then we  got – iron foundries, Essen, Krupp, & the Hartz Mts.  thrown at us. The Huns knew the exact location  of the communication trench (one of theirs), and lobbed  into a length of about 400 yds. a shell every 10 yds  every 5 seconds. That is what the 50th got through before starting work. The trench was absolutely smashed, & we lost a fair number of men. Then  our next trouble was to keep alive in the front


France Omitted Letter 25.8.16 read back to 60  My last letter gave you a short account of our first stunt - and the two biggest ‘goes’ I’ve yet had - but my description was very incomplete as I was done up at the time. Now my mind is numbed to the horrors of that awful time - I can recall pretty well every minute and every act - I could tell all about it, but my thoughts flow too quickly for writing I have not ceased wondering how I came out alive - I believe a bullet grazed my right ear it was scratched a wee bit - I believe shells burst so close that the concussion bowled me over - & I remember a shell bursting right above me as I was lying in the open, & the heat was so great that I rubbed my trouser legs to see if they were burning. - I had some marvellous escapes. I recommended two of my officers - Rule and Beresford - and some of my men Nuttall, Kerr, Walsh & Hanley for honours,  & expected to be among those recommended too.  I’m a bit disappointed for somehow I have been passed over, - but I’m not going to H.Q. to blare out what I did - like some folks did: I expected a M.C at least if my dues were paid in comparison with some people.  However we’ll have another stunt in a few days, & I’ll go for converting my honor to V.C.


Once again in the vortex of an inferno as hot as  hell - whether we go in or not is uncertain - For  we may be the Reserve Battn. on a/c of doing all  the work on the last stunt & then we will only be IN  for a few hours – as we are being shifted at the end  of the week – to carry on peaceful trench warfare in  other parts. Sincerely I hope we have another "go" here,  for those who are left of my boys are right up to  fighting pitch – and it would be a pity to leave  here with our job uncompleted – and our desire to  avenge lost comrades unsatisfied. However whatever  happens we will fight hard. – & get "some" too.  Birdwood visited us yesterday & presented ribbons  (of medals later) to certain men. Only 3 of our Battn  got them !!! – one belonged to me (Kerr).  Well can't write much – up to my eyes in work &  prep. Very busy. The weather is vile – something  awful as regards rain & mud – never seen anything  like it. Recd a. June mail yesterday, up to July 9 & 11.  I enclose two photos (by young Lynch) – One is  a photo of those designs I spoke about at surdoss –  This is No. 9 Platoon (mine) showing Pappet Heads c. Br. Hill  The other is a group of Sgts . of 10th – taken just before  the big split when the 52nd. most splendid lot of N.C.O ever existed was formed. Keep this.  No more news.. Love & best wishes in every way from.  Rollo.


line trench - (our jump off place) - and for 4½ hours  the Huns simply poured shells on to us. Amidst all  this we had to make our dispositions for the attack –  & then we were able to lie 'doggo' - for 30 mins. before  doing our little dash.  At last 9. 35 came – We got out over the top, "lined  up" about 40 yds. out by 9. 40. Then IT began.  IT was our Artillery preparation. Talk about a  wall of bursting flame. We had to take about 800 yds .  of Hun trench - & that 800 yds. had 3 mins. of  awful bombardment, a sheet of flame the whole  length representing the bursting shells. The dust  from the explosions, & the intense glare, cast an  orange glow over the proceedings.  While this was going on we sneaked up to about  50 yds. of the objective. – It was a weird sight –  our boys steadily advancing against a background  of solid golden flame – & the noise!! It was terrific!!  The Artillery then lifted back 50yds. & then came the supreme moment of the lot. Right-o C !"  & with a sounding of whistles we jumped up and  charged like blue hell across those few yards.  My word, – the boys travelled !! – in cheering, bayonets  carried at "high post point" - & we reached the trenches –  or what was left of them. We found only about 42  live men - the rest were knocked out.  Beresford


62



soon bombed these with the "Kamerad" attitude – but.  we only took five unwounded prisoners:  Then work "started"! We had to dig in almost  a fresh line of trench – & my word the boys did  dig – & we had a very decent line before dawn.  All that day (13th) we got blue blazes – shelled  from dawn until late dusk .– but our "diggers"  had been so good that we had few casualties.  Fritz made two or three tries to form up for a  counter-attack – but we'd get in early, and by  being alert kept him from concentrating on us.  On the 14th. he gave us seven hours of perfect  "inferno." What a time we had. Few of us thought  we'd get through that day, but we stuck it O.K.  That night we were sent out on a very  difficult stunt. By this time we'd lost about  2/3 of our men, & we'd had no sleep since late on  11th – & the men were dead tired with three nights  of hard, heavy digging. We now had to go out  to the left, & advance to dig in "on the Sky-line."  We got out O. K. & formed into position on the  objective – but Fritz spotted us, & made our lives  precarious with machine guns & shells. Herbert  was temporarily smashed up – Beresford was blown  out by a shell – (shell shock) Dirden, Rhodes, & Fowler  wounded, D G. was forced back, leaving the remnant.

First go at the Huns.  Pozieries . 17.8.1916. 


64

