  Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Location: near Ypres Belgium Date: 18 October 1916
Nationality: Australian

Text:   Dear Father & Mother,  I rather exhausted my writing powers  over my experiences in England & I've done nothing else  except scrawl of a letter to Wimps. I will write to the  Boltons tonight - as well as to you.  I must thank you for the two  very acceptable parcels I recd. the last two mails - that  Horlick's Milk, cheese, paste, nuts, & chocs was grand-  while the one from Wimps contained Eucalyptus, 3 lots of  socks &c, - the socks being especially useful now.  We are now in a new country -  lowlying - & very wet in winter. We are now in the  "cockpit" of Europe - and since Oct 1914 many great  fights have occurred here. Ypres is probably the most  famous of all our 'fronts' - ding-dong fights have taken  place to gain this little ridge, & to stop the rush on  to Ypres. Just now Fritz holds the ridge - but he  got that before we had our present Artillery . Until the  Somme push things weren't too good here - but things  have improved here - and we have the preponderance  in artillery now. We are not exactly in the front line  but we supply them, & work near the line. & I have been  up 'getting to know the front' - the last few days. It is  fairly peaceful here - & sheer bad luck if a chap gets knocked 
We are fairly busy here - I'm Returning Officer in  connection with Mil. Service Referendum, & I am sorry  to see it as broad as it is. All, except married men or  those who are sole dependents, should be forced to serve,  and at a reduced rate of pay. We are all ready for a  good long spell - but we know we cannot have one yet -  and no one seems to be coming forward to take the  strain - so we have to hang on, & help those who live  on the blood of those who have gone out. God help  Australia if she votes NO, - I think any man who  votes NO is a pro German, - the lowest of the low, & in  fact not a man. I tell my lads this is pure Aussy -  what I think of anti conscriptionists, & was very emphatic.  I've just recd. a letter from Boltons - with a couple of  snaps Fred made of me. My boys (Loudon & Co ) say  that one is typical of me - my attitude when I "strafe"-  but I'm smiling at something Hannah has just said.  I've heard from several of my boys - some had heard  I'd " gone out" - & glad to hear that 'so & so' had seen me  in England. It is fine to hear from the old boys - for  I loved those men even when I had to "stir" them up  - & it was hard to lose so many - about 1 in 6 fell  in those two Somme stunts - & others are maimed for  life - others knocked out for six or eight weeks, - and  this is the sort of thing one feels most - and will  affect me for many, many days.

To have a Sergeant & later two other men come up  to me during that Dante’s Inferno we were in - and  ask permission to go to the rear to get 'bad' wounds  dressed - is discipline - yet some say the Australians  are undisciplined! Thank God, my talks to the  boys about 'Duty' have borne fruit - in spite of having  - at times to seem harsh - & I am proud of my men.  Some of the wounded are back again - but the number  of old Broken Hill boys is getting much smaller - but  those left are going strong. Sgt. Wilson in this go has  been in Hosp. three times - but he is here again, & so is  Lister, whilst Sgt Peebles who was made like a sieve  about the arms & legs is back too - anxious to have  another go, & to give back a little of what he got.  Bise, Whittle, Nuttall, Spinkston & Cheney are all in touch  with me - & I expect the last two here any time.  I get no word from Scott - so fancy he must have  been more badly wounded than I thought. Many of the  others write to me, & I must stop now to write to  some of them  News is extremely scarce - but "no news &c. &c".  Best of good wishes., best love, good luck &c from  Your loving, Rollo. Hope you're all as well as I am .
