Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury

Location: Same damned old place
 Date: 21 August 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:  Just had the pleasure of seeing 17 bags of mails sink beneath  the Medit, a Hosp ship collided with a mail lighter- and 2 200 bags of mail for 1st Div. (17 for 10th) are now being perused by Neptune & Co. This is the second lot of ours gone - so the luck of the 10th is not too good. Here we are in the same place - our huge attempt to push through has fizzled out, and the "Staff" is thinking. My word if ever we get back to Aussy you will hear my opinion of this openly, 'Bungle', 'bungle' all the time. The 10th are doing their 18th week in the trenches, having had only 9 days relief in that time. - Every day we are losing men - mostly through sickness. Out of my Rfts. 43 have been struck off - & over 20 of these sickness. Ireland went away with dysentery, & 4 other officers soon followed. Everybody seems to have had stomach trouble, and most are very weak - but devil a spell do we get, and now we are warned a winter campaign is expected, All we can do is just to hang on - until our ranks are depleted so that we will have to be withdrawn. The "Fighting Tenth" is a sorry wreck now - I think we have not 100 men (including returned wounded) who went through the first 4 days, & the casualties of my Rfts. speaks for itself Personally I am very fit but tired - so will close now.

 21.8.1915 Jock Hamilton has just been promoted Capt, & is transferred to D Co. Major Shaw is acting 2-O.C. of 10th – Stopp has gone away sick so that Cornish is acting O.C. of C and I am second to him. As he has been off colour lately, I have been virtually in command Three N.C.O have just been promoted to 2 Lieut. & are with us, so next to Cornish I have been longer with C Comp. than any of the others. 
Among recent promotions three A.H.S. boys get their first 'stars' - Henwood, McCairn, & Gordon. The latter has just gone away ill - and so has Loutit - an old mate of School of Mines days. As 'Snow' case is being re-tried Jacky Hughes & Charlie Both are still kept back - & Hughes especially has bad luck. He was to have been with the 10th but being in the 'Intell' Dept at the beginning of the war - he had so much to do chasing Hun spies, that H.Q. blocked him till matters straightened themselves out. According to all accounts the 3rd Contingent played up 'Old Harry' in Cairo, took charge of the town in fact helped by Tommies - but the latter & N.Z. men slunk away when trouble came along. Result is we are kept here as H.Q. are afraid of conduct of new troops. Great fuss is made of the N.Z. divisions - but let me give you a fact or two. "Quinn's Post" episode is O.K. now so I can speak out. The N.Z. really funked the Turkish attack – & we had to open up enfilade fire to make them face the Turks. If Quinn's had gone our whole position would have been opened up - so at last picked men from the Aust. were put in - and we turned the tables. Result- no Turks now within a mile of Quinns – but what makes our boys wild is the fact N.Z. are being relieved though they landed in comfort compared to our lot - and have only had 5 weeks in the trenches at most. Some of the N.Z. are fine battalions - but others are worse than Light Horse, The latest joke here is that L.H. "offered to serve as infantry." Some of my men came upon an old "pozzy" 
& found in it a German blue grey overcoat wrapped round a bottle of Johnny Walker. The boys were extremely annoyed to find the bottle was very empty - but it seems hard luck that the enemy can get good British whisky whilst we have to put up with inferior Grecian truck. One of my men wept over the empty bottle - but they nicked all the buttons from the coat I have got some fine copper driving bands off some shells which lobbed near me - & if I get them back to Australia they will make fine serviette rings. Scott has just been sent to Hos. with a fearful cold and a touch of rheumatics. I can't tell you any news yet of this "great" operation which has fizzled out very dismally, - but you'll get it some day. Trench life is miserable plenty of sickness and stink - but very little glory. I am still in excellent health - but send along a warm woollen singlet with sleeves if we winter in this miserable hole. Good luck. Much love from Rollo. 