Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury

Location: Anzac

Date: 11 June 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:  Have to resort to all sorts of oddments for this letter as all kit &c has been stacked pending what we hope will be a general advance. During the past week many changes have occurred   in this part - trenches being taken on our right & left,   while big things are to be done on our left. If things   go right. we should have the dominating hand here   by the end of this week. I will tell you more  in my next letter. You can draw some conclusion from the fact that some of Paul's men have been   among some wounded dressed at this beach. I have   heard that P. is down with pneumonia,   I wrote a letter which I didn't send - too dangerous -   & just now even the heads are getting 'wigged'  for   sending indiscreet letters which have been published. Don't take any notice of rumors. I've heard all sorts   of yarns were current in Cairo &c about me being   'outed' - 'lost a leg', or 'down with typhoid' - &   Murray Fowler had a blue fit when he saw me   on joining - as he'd heard in Egypt that I'd gone W. Never take notice of anything unless it's Official. I've met many old pals & made many new ones. Shaw of 'pint of water' fame - Gordon Cornish is Capt.,   & I've met Todd & Frayne - (Munro's pals). Frayne was   sniped & went W. the other day. Our Brgdr. Gen. Sinclair [*Maclagan*] Maclagan is a fine old chap & knows me well.

Very few of the officers who left with the 10th are here   now - only Weir, Lorenzo, Shaw, Giles, Stopp, Perry,   Hocking, & Hamilton are with us - so you can see that   trench life plays up with us all. We expect our next   reinforcements daily. Things are worked differently now -   4 officers  to every 236 men - (not only 2 as in the case   of Hancock & myself) - S. Aust. officers have done work that was not done anywhere else & folks are only just   beginning to realise it. I didn't give you much description of our trip from   Alexandria to Lemnos - it's too great for a written   account - I hope to be able to tell you about it by   Xmas time. However we left Cairo early - breaking camp 4 a.m.   Travelled all day through deserts or oases – arriving at   Alex. at 1.30 p.m. ending the most miserable train   journey I've ever done. We stepped off the train on the wharf at Alex. & waited in a blistering sun till 4 p.m. Had a tough job   keeping the fellows away from native gin shops, and made myself mighty unpopular in doing so. There we went on board "Australind"   a converted Germ. Australian liner - a real dirty, lousy tub. There   were 29 officers & 1100 men aboard with sleeping accom. for 9 officers. Ireland, Hancock, & myself getting beds on lower boat deck. Left   Alex at 8 p.m. passing a score of transports, & 6 or so warships The journey was in absolute darkness at night - for a Hun sub.    [*Maclagan*] had been seen, & we had a 'sub guard' with orders to shoot quick
Our course was rather an erratic one & we passed many pretty   islands - so many that I've mixed up their names, but my descrip of Imbros would do for each. The deep blue of the Medit. was   wonderful - and indescribable. Lemnos was reached after 78 hours'   trip & we sailed into Mudros where the 3rd Brig, the base unnamed   in Gordon's last letter. The narrow entrance was guarded by war   boats, for submarines are about They had a go at a dummy   warship which they took for "Big Lizzie." The harbor has room for very many ships. After a day or two here at 7pm I was   put on a mine sweeper - 'Newmarket' - & started for Gallipoli - reaching here at daybreak. We were given a great send off from   Mudros as we passed the Mauretania, La France, - and especially by the sailors on the war-boats - (many here). then away into   the darkness, & danger of subs, which we quite expected to meet   outside Mudros. At 1 a.m. we were off a mysterious black coast   and here we heard the first sounds of battle – crack! crack! of snipers, at close intervals as we lay off the coast. At Mudros   I saw my first 'Taube' - Fritz flew over a camp of Frenchies   dropping eggs -   Nothing has happened lately - we keep losing men daily, & the   5th Reinfts. being well among them. It's either 'bad luck' or to my   mind 'destiny' - & anyhow every little we do helps to push the   thing along a bit further towards crushing Hunland, & breaking   up this scum of Europe here in Turkey. So far I believe the   casualties of my old platoon is 5 killed, 8 wounded, 6 Hospital so we are doing our share. Everyone here is pleased with   the sturdiness of my old boys, they are true soldiers, solid,   trustworthy, & what is very essential - cheerful at all times. My new No 9 platoon is a fine one - and we mutually are   much attached. I don't loaf on my N.C.Os - but try & know everything that goes on among them, & try to take every possible care of them. They are to work for me, fight with me, & live with me, & so I must   have their trust, & I can tell you things run pretty comfortably My old platoon No 10 is a sister to No 9, & both consist in   the main of Broken Hill men, & I have got on well with them all.
They are tough men - but I have had no nonsense from   any of them. Jock Hamilton has No. 10 - he is an old soldier   of much campaign experience, & has been a great help to me. He & I can get more out of Nos 9 & 10 than any others can   & we give them some tough jobs too. If we were ordered to   advance you can't imagine the feeling of security I have, because I know that Bill Mulvaney, Jack Wreath, Cameron,   Hill, Hunter, Baynes, Holland, Connock, & above all Sgt. CHISHOLME   would be close behind me as we hop over. An epidemic seems to be breaking out here - (blow censor) -  a kind of fever with abdom. pains has gripped several of my   men, they have gone to the Hospital. I have an idea that   but for our inoculation it would turn to enteric. 'Pills' says   it is influenza & a physical reaction after stress of campaign -   but does not consider it dangerous so far. I got a fine parcel from Liverpool - chocolate, shortbread,   biscuits, & cigarettes - a splendid gift which I am thanking   them for - & hope to do personally soon. I have taken up smoking on your advice - as it drowns   very effectively the 'hum' of the Turkish dead out in front. I don't cotton to the habit yet but will keep it going   till I get away from this smelly place. Thank you for the papers you send weekly. & I can   assure you your letters are tip top stimulators - as they  inspire me to do my very best. I haven't time nor paper   to write to Uncle Will and other relatives - so write to them   for me. So far I'm all right, good health, getting promotion,   stopping no bullets &c. - So pass this on to Wumps & George. I am tip-top - may be a bit lean- but FIT - & now with   best wishes for best of everything to you all -   remain Your Loving son, Rollo