Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury

Date: 29 August 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:
 I enclose 1. list of casualties I want kept - 2. Names of my 5th Rfts. 3 Some Egyptian. stamps 4 a snap of Colonel Bob Elliot O.C. 7th Battn - a Melb. Uni. man - who was on the "Australind" - (returned after wounded) - & he & I got on well together. - Our job here is same as usual - carting sick to the Hosp. & devil a man do we get in their place. 53 of 5 Rfts. have gone away & only 1 back -  Hancock has gone too - &  counting in Weir we have lost 11 officers the last fortnight, & 2 others have returned.
H.Q. are waking up - 4 officers now do the work in S st., that Hancock & I had to do alone, and I am glad to hear all officers have to do 2 months' service with the battn before taken on the strength - as that will give a show to those promoted from the ranks. The 27th is a "rag-time" show - and have a —  name. - but I will have more to say of them later. Col. Weir is now Acting Brigadier as MacLagan is away temporarily. If all the officers had "stuck it' like Weir it would have been better - but few have. I saw Col. W. the other day. and he asked of home & you. He introduced me to several big-wigs of H.Q - as "son of an old school mate" - & that he was watching me with interest. Anyhow I hope he becomes Brig. Gen & gets D.S.O. for the fine work he has done. Shaw is now temp. O.C. 10th - Giles is second- Cornish O.C. of C. company, Both Lauders are dead. If letters haven't come to hand blame the censor at the base – I've written once a week.  No we haven't got past the first step on our way to Constantinople – and God knows whether we ever make a second step. I wish Kitchener would send us soldiers not boys to do the business. If what I have seen - (with a few glorious exceptions) are trained soldiers – will pack up & leave the Empire. I see in an English paper the Aust. are spoken of as untrained but God help us if we have to rely on the miserable half starved, flat-chested 'men' in certain regiments near us - if they are specimens of "Kitcheners trained men".
Our "untrained men" - fought from Apr. 25 to 29 without rest or relief of any kind - and are now doing their 19th week in the trenches - and I reckon the Australian is the best soldier in the Empire. The trained British batts. do 3 weeks & are then pulled out for a month - so Aussy can stand it O.K.  Its marvellous. The Tommies here can't even speak the King's English - & our boys soon got tired of listening to them. Conscription will be the only thing for them and Australia too. Ireland was upset by some bombing one night 8 or 9 weeks ago - & has not shown up since. Anyhow he didn't appear to have what is commonly known as 'guts' – and his sickness was opportune. Nothing doing down our end lately. Our boys with the British & Pommies are doing good work up North. We call the Regulars – Indians & Australians - 'British' - but Pommies are nondescript. Connaught Rangers are tip-top. Trench warfare is damnable - but not even the Devil nor Mahomet with him - can shift us from these trenches. I am O.K. Recd. letters from Wumps, Mr Anner, Kimbers &c. Love to all - News is very scarce. Who sent McE. a feather to get him enlisted? I believe we are to be relieved soon. Best love, Rollo.