 
Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Date: 22 June 1916
Location: Near Armenitieres
Nationality: Australian

Text:

Note  We are near Armentières. new units N Flanders.  Dear Father & Mother,- We have just recd. portion of a mail a letter from Mum while at Inglewood, am glad to know Harry & Mum had a good time at Houghton - but sorry that Dad wasn't able to be there too No news from here - except we're in "close support" - less than a mile from the firing line & have met most of my old chums in the 10th - especially old Jack Hamilton who in Gallipoli was like a big brother to me.  He is one of the best - & hope he gets through O.K. Not seen Maclagan, Weir, or Giles yet - but hope to soon. Was assured to read S. is on his way back. - I might have had such a holiday - but the "Sat afternooners" are no good at this game - they are best at Mitcham teaching the boys to "form fours."  What the d. is Stipp doing - still suffering from "shock" - or is he a "recruiting officer." This will not be a very newsy letter - except that the firing line is really dangerous, & S. should be told so before it's too late.  Fritz uses shells, bombs, & aerial torpedoes, & at times knocks our trenches inside out & the occupants rotten - but fortunately we have artillery too, & play the same game - only we send about 6 to their 1, & their front lines must get a hell of a time. The aerial torpedoes are awful things.
I am by no means a hero.  I don't mind admitting I dread these beggars.  I have seen the effect of them - they're about the limit.  They bore about 6' or 9' into the ground - & blow out a hole to that depth and about same diameter.  I have seen the damage that 20 of these did to some trenches - 150 men took 4 hours to repair them next night.  They can be dodged with luck - but without luck - !! However where they use these fakes, we reply with "pudding" bombs.  A pudding for a family of 100 represents their size - so you can guess Fritz doesnt "stomach" them well. Fritz is a shrewd Enemy, uses all sorts of tricks, but as you know we don't use our brains at all, so they do as they like - I don't think!!  I could tell you a few tit bits concerning the hobby I am now busy with - but of course I must obey the Censor's rules.  Fritz is shrewd & clever;- they have taught us much, and I really believe we will be and are Excellent pupils. Birdwood inspected us yesterday & told us we would have "plenty of "it" directly" - so we are expecting a journey over the top soon.  I have put my name for "Blighty leave" well down on the list - altho' its really due this week - but having brought the boys so far I think it my duty to take them into Fritz territory. We are exceedingly busy night & day, so I am tired now - but will write later.  Best of all good luck, success, happiness, much love, & hope you are as well as. Your loving Son, Rollo