Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Location: France Date: 4 February 1917
Nationality: Australian

Text:  Dear Dad & Mother  Just recd. a parcel from you- cake & a   splendid muffler.  The cake we will have for supper  tonight - it looks very good.  Everybody admired   the muffler - it is so beautifully warm & thick - & it  looks very nice.  It’s length will enable me to use  it as a chest warmer too - it is a real beauty -    & thank you very much for it.    Also recd a parcel from Newmans - cake, sox,   gloves, & nuts - & a fine lot too.  I’m afraid  I won’t have time to write to Pearl this time  but I’ll get a letter off next mail.  Your Xmas parcel hasn’t turned up yet - I am  one of several whose parcels have gone astray, but  they may turn up at any time.  Our Xmas parcels from the L.W. League have  also come - & our lot was from a S.A. unit. Mine came from Miss Langsford (St. Peter’s) - I  believe I know her brother in the A.M.C.  Just now little stunts - (but very costly to  those taking part) have been going on to our R.  & L. reminding me of the days at Pozieres & Moquet. Wilson seems a bit more inclined to do something  more than write notes.  We don’t get much news  here in front, but weird & wonderful rumors reach  us about things generally. 
I wish you could cable & let me know exactly  when G. left Aust, so I can make  arrgmts. I sacrificed my second leave - (since 29.12.16) thinking  he was near at hand - so let me know exactly  As there is a war on which will be finished   by a PUSH commencing soon it is quite likely   that leave will be stopped after the end of Feb.  Unless I hear during the next four days or so -  I will not only miss seeing G. but also lose  my leave as well.  If I took my 10 days now - perhaps G. would come  on the 11th - so you can see my position.  I must finish now as I cutting things rather  fine (re mail) - so I will close with all good  wishes, very much love to you all & esp. yourselves  Your loving son  Rollo.  P.S. Thanks once more for that parcel.  I hope  you are as well a I am.  My ankle is quite  all right now. 
