
Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Date: 22 April 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:


Thursday. 22nd April 1915.
As usual - got up before reveille - clock business seems quite strange. Another fine day - but as we are presumably  getting near the Leeuwin - a bit of a swell seems to be rising  tonight. Men are very well settled down & seem satisfied although I believe there is a certain amount of dissatisfaction re certain promotions among the N.C.O.’s.  Ships routine may get monotonous - no systematic arrangement of troop decks & parade hours is the cause. Feeling quite well - & exceedingly fit - Received notification re censorship of news. "Postcards" only to be used.

Friday April 23rd 1915 Another fine day - plenty of work [[Ma]]? Physical Drill - and lectures. Afternoon - shifting kits & equipments from the hold - much trouble & hard work -  The Victorians are great manufactures of kits - so are we. - 10th possessed 137 kits at 9.30 a.m - 153 by 6.30p.m - hard work-. Expect to see Cape Leewin at 4p.m. tomorrow - may reach Fremantle on Sunday. Excellent ship - very few unwell today. Endeavouring to work up some sports - boxing etc -  but Hancock does not seem too energetic hence occasional lapses of enthusiasm. Also manufactured a blackboard with the assistance of Cook Bell.

Saturday April 24th 1915 - Still fine weather. Land first sighted at 6.15am - Cape Leewin at 4.30pm.  Whales seen about 5.00pm. Passed the converted transport German boat Derflinger in the morning carrying stock.  Practically all men in fatigues- only a few N.C.O’s on parade - good physical drill done - lectured on Field Sketching – and read extracts from the Commonwealth  Military Journal re the Australians in Egypt. [[?]] Had a very good day. Concert in the evening. - went very well indeed.  Would like to see more talent among my own men. Expect to stop at Fremantle tomorrow morning the 25th.  As I am officer of the guard - I expect a busy day - anyhow I am looking forward to seeing at least some of the West. 
Rollo.