Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Location: Habeita Camp  Date: 15 February 1916
Nationality: Australian

Text:
  Jacko hasn’t come to hand yet- though he’s only   about 30 miles away at a place called El Kantara  I wish they’d bustle along to us for one gets tired  of toiling and waiting at this job. I think they’re only  putting up a bluff - menacing the Canal to draw us -  as they know we must guard the whole length.  Anyhow we will wait in patience - and as long as   we get a chance later at the Huns in France  we don’t care. We want to have a cut in there. 
Rollo.

By this time you've had my letters re the evacuation - and where we were then - so I don't need  to say any more - except it's quite true that men were  frozen to death at Suvla - over 200 disabled at Lemnos in one night - severe frost bites.  Russell (one of the  M.O. of 3rd A.G.H) - told me these men were sent to his hospital - & several cases of amputation (toes & feet - ) so that it was pretty serious. - and the Crimean  experiences would have been nothing compared to ours  if we'd wintered at Gallipoli.  I thank God we have not to go back there. It's about time we had another scrap.  Our last was on Nov. 16 - so we are getting the fighting itch  again. I was glad to get those prints of Jan 10th - and I have placed them in my pay book.  The two kids - Harry & George have grown very much (especially the latter) & both look tip top.  I suppose Harry as a  Boy Scout is beginning to fancy himself now he's in II Class.  You two look well - but what about B. she doesn't show anywhere.  Harry's engine looks A.1. I'm glad you liked the things Wumps got for me - & suppose you've already got those articles from Cairo. Had a letter from Stan the other day.  Replied curtly. My word "campaigning" soon bring out one's weaknesses - Stan simply had "funk" - got ill in Egypt - was only 9½ weeks at Gallipoli - & will be lucky if the seniors allow him to rejoin. 
Our present C.O. (Col. B . . . r) is not on good terms with me - nor any others of the officers.  He was one of the Weymouth Brigade - (our name for cold-footers at Weymouth Depot) - and joined up as we were leaving ANZAC. He is the antithesis of Col Weir - and is very unpopular. So far he and I have not crossed one another - but indirectly his orders affect my men & myself - and he & I won't live together long. There is a rumor around that some transfers are being affected - and I feel like applying for one.  Shaw & Giles are away on leave - and I believe forming new battalions - so I would pack up too if I only knew what's doing. I shd. have had my Captaincy last Oct., but because of an inferior "senior" I was and am still blocked. Since August I have been doing 2/ in command work & No. 9 Platoon - the first being a Captain's job - & for 6 weeks I was O.C. of a Company.  I may be too young for a Captaincy - but if I'm doing a certain job - I should get the equivalent rank - and if I don't get it soon - well I'll go for a transfer. It's hard to think of leaving my old boys - but one's only alive one day  & perhaps pushing up daisies the next - & one can't keep in the same old groove. I am watching very closely & believe I can see a loophole ahead - but will let you know more when I am certain of my ground.   
Everybody is thoroughly sick of this bounder - especially   our Senior officers  - and he is a most impossible C.O.  I will tell you a bit more if I get back to S. Aust.  His manners make him positively Hunnish - and  many are the curses I’ve heard my seniors mutter - and  I sympathise with them. The officers loathe & despise him  & only obey because of his position - & a strong sense of  duty  - while the men absolutely hate him  If Col. Weir had only seen the 10th  at Tel El Kebir resenting certain words spoken to them by B. last New Year’s   Day - I reckon he’d have wept. I felt sorry for the  me - who were raked fore & aft - just because of the conduct  of a few miscreants.  If he had shot one or two men  who were innocent - he could not have rankled them  more - his words - well every one cut like a whip -  He spoke to the men as if they were dogs. & I can tell  you it was only the men’s respect for some of us, and  our influence over them, that there was not serious  trouble. As it was he was “counted out” promptly.  In our Battn there is perfect harmony - except where he  is concerned - yet tho’ so far we’ve never disagreed -  I can’t stand him - & don’t be surprised if I cable   a change of address. Four officers are away- Weir  (off the strength) likewise Hurcombe - Shaw - Giles & Lorenzo  is trying - so I may get a show.  No more news- much love & best wishes to all  Rollo. 