
Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Location: France
Date: 23 November 1916
Rank: Lieutenant Colonel
Regiment: 50th Battalion
Nationality: Australian

Text:
  Dear Father & Mother,- I know you will be satisfied to get any news from me - no matter what our conditions may be.  Since I last wrote we have moved about considerably & quickly, & the day after my birthday found us taking over a certain sector of the front line further to the right of our August position.  The conditions are pretty bad - but the experience unique. To get anywhere near our front line we have to toil through about a mile of sticky mud, of varying depth up to 8' or so - & deeper still in the shell-holes. In wet weather this is infinitely worse. We had about 3" of snow when we were right in front - & you can imagine the mess when this began to thaw at dawn - & with rain &c., we can claim to have soldiered in every sort of weather & clime.
A military man sees nothing poetic in the alleged beauty of a snowfall - (in the front lines anyhow) This trip we merely held ground & didn't go "over the top" - but we go in again in two days' time - but we don't know if any special job is on. Fritz is by no means running short of shells, & he gave us a particularly hot time last trip - but a merciful Providence spared me once more. In your letter (Sept 17) you mention about so many of our Stunts being on Sundays. We realise that here - & undoubtedly the thought, that at that time more than any others, - our dear ones are beseeching the Almighty for our welfare - gives us confidence, & the courage to get up & do what is required in the face of the most hellish conditions I have had some marvellous escapes - but that little prayer "God help me" has often been answered, & I hope will always so be - whenever I have to use it in matters of supreme emergency again We are well looked after - so don't worry on that score - rubber thigh boots, leather jerkin well lined - two lots of gloves - keep us O.K. - while we constantly wear our greatcoats - & have a system of frequently changing wet for dry sox &c. Whale oil is use freely, & 'Trench feet" is practically non-existent.

Nov. 11th Xmas card from Rollo.- 50th Battalion - From Lt Col. Salisbury & Officers 21.11 16 Field card - Quite Well - Letter rec: France 23.11.1916