Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury

Location: Anzac Cove Egypt
   Date: 6 September 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:  More developments brewing but still continue   to address Egypt - Major Parsons & his squadron   have arrived. I walked 5 miles to see them - & after   a great hunt found Capt. Sukman, Ragless was   away on outpost about 1 ½ miles further so didn't   see him. The gullies there reminded me of those between the Oval (Houghton) & T.T. Gully - steep   narrow, & thick scrub. The boys were glad to see   me as they'd heard I'd gone out long ago. They asked all sorts of questions about the Turks   & opened their eyes when I spoke about the few   yds between our trenches & Jacko. On this flank   Jacko is about 2 miles aways - in front of us only   5 to 50 yds! so we're a bit different. Nothing much doing lately - A couple of Turks   crept over this week & gave themselves up - the first   prisoners I believe from the 10th to reach Div H.Q   Shearer brought in a wounded Turk some days ago - but he died – & the 10th have 'accepted' so few surrenders  that these deserters caused quite a sensation. They   gave away a lot of 'news' to H.Q. & spoke freely - but   they were a low type of fellows - and I'd reckon  their evidence very 'suspicious'. Anyhow the 10th put   no trust in them - & will report deserters after they   have dealt with them - as ‘bombs’ are nasty close up.
We are out every night laying barbed wire - thats the worst job to do tonight. We’ve lost no one yet at this game yet - and anyhow after tonight I dont want any more 'wire' for it tickles ones hands too much & 4 nights running is quite enough. I have a Turkish incend bomb in my pozzy that did not function It's about 15" long 7” diam & contains a liquid- turpentiney stuff - yellow powder a damp claggy stuff not brittle like sulphur. The mouth is blocked with a wooden plug - which is supposed to fall out on impact - & mix the powder & liquid & then comes the ‘stink ‘ - signature The Turks are reported to have gas - So have we - & the helmets to - but so far we’ve not used it on either side. Mail just in so will stop a while.
Rollo.