
Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Location: Somewhere in France Date: 23 July 1916
Nationality: Australian

Text:
 Have just dropped George a line re his birthday  I'd forgotten all about it till today. I have so many  little details to attend to that you must excuse me  if I'm remiss in sending along - I remember them O.K.  We had a fine mail from Aussie early this week-  I heard from Ruby, Pearl, Miss Kimber, besides & then  from you & Wumps - & one from Arthur Trudgen.  Your letters were 21 & 25 5 it still takes nearly  two months to get contact - The U boats have caused  most Australian mails to travel via S. Africa now.
We are still here - ready to push off at a moment's notice -  but our move seems to be held up for a time. The "push"  is doing well despite heavy Hunnish counterattacks - but  the beggars are only holding on against us - their pounding  away at Verdun is useless - for even if they get V. it will  do them no good - we have many trumps yet to play.  Fritz is doing great gallery play to the neutrals with his  " Deutschland" &c. - but we cannot think of Peace until  the Huns have laid down their arms, followed by the  ultimate disintegration of the Hunland by the Allied  diplomatists when the due time arrives.  I notice the 43rd has sailed at last - & should be a  crack battalion - I'm glad Kinnick is getting away at  last - as he'd been trying for a long time. You no  doubt remember the " age clause" - (re young officers) well  if it hadn't been for Kinnick I would not have been  allowed to leave when I did. His younger brother  now has two stars in the old 11th  I haven't heard much of the old Brigade for some  time - be we are (Our Army Corps) in close reserve -  ready for what Birdwood calls "hard fighting". Our  Bde (13th) is the top of our Div., Brg Gen Glasgow C.M.G. D.S.O.  is proud of our Battn which he classes top of the Bde.  Cox has been floating around a good deal the last  two or three days - so we feel there'll be something  doing with us before very long. 
We have been waiting some time now for "Close  Action" - not Trench fighting but out in the open  if Fritz only gives us an opportunity that way -  we will cause them more bother than all the Russians  & their advances put together.  We have not been resting during the past weeks. Long  route marches each morning, hard training in the  afternoon have hardened our boys up considerably.  Notwithstanding the fact that the wine which is sold  in this village is equal to "Pinkie" our chaps are A.1.  We are pretty strong against crimes in our Bde. Some of  mine got on the loose last Monday - (pay day) & such  offences as drunkenness, A.W.L. &c. brought a courtmartial  which sat on the offenders with 6 + 4 mos. H.L. respectively.  Stanway is not here yet but some of his cobbers have  heard from him, he is out of Hosp. & convalescing.  A Co of Stanways would be an ideal one.  Haven't heard from Boltons lately- "leave" is stopped  for awhile - & anyhow most of us don't want 'Leave'  until we've had a good old slap at Fritz first. For my  part I'd like to wait until the war is finished -  but all the same I daresay I won't say 'no' to 'leave'  in about 2 or 3 months' time. When I do get 'leave'  I'll get myself right away from Khaki into mufti - & will  go to some quiet spot & enjoy getting "white feathers." 
George must have felt wild when bailed up for not  "recruiting" - but the laugh was on his side.  News is very scarce & I have had much difficulty  in making up this much in my letter - but there  you know "No news is good news."  Well - you may expect "news" in my next letter -  so I will close with very best of all good wishes to  you all - & very much love to all especially yourselves-  hoping you're all as well as your loving son  Rollo. 