Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Location: Rail Head Sinai Desert Date: 14 May 1916
Nationality: Australian

Text:  This time last week we expected Jacko to come in and we were picked out as a mobile Flying Column to go out & meet him - but Jacko was putting up a bluff - & now we hear is retreating - so good bye to our D.S.O chances -much to our sorrow. Seemingly the authorities will only trust 'Aussies' out here after the Katia affair - so we will stay here a few days longer We are not far from Habeita - but living a very strenuous life without much effort on our part. Rev. 4 a m work 5.30 till 10 - then try to keep cool till 'Lights Out' 9pm. Heat here is bad from 10 onwards. Last week every day 110° at noon - thence up to 124°. This tries us very much - I stand it fairly well - but all the same I welcome sunset & loathe sunrise. The nights make up for the day - but they're all too short. It seems extravagant to waste the lovely nights in a tent writing letters - & it's too hot in the day - so you can realise why this letter is patchy & scraggy 5 Parcels came to hand lately. 2 from you & very welcome too. The pipe I'll leave till we get to trenches ; medicine & Bovril also till France. Chocs & hankies from Berna - Chocs stood the journey well - but we soon 'scoffed' them. Another parcel was from Boltons & contained a fine cake - which was much appreciated by the Mess.
First mails just recd addressed Capt. A. thanks for congrats. I am fairly young & inexperienced, but I hope to fill the job as it should be - and as there's a war on - I pray that for my men's sake, I will not be a messer. You talk about joining the Masons. I saw something in the 10th what it meant to be a Mason - but I have managed to pull along up to now without outside aids - & so long as ability counts I don't growl. But when these low undercurrents of intrigue & personal pull & push stunts start my whole being boils. You ask what old 10th are here. Well there's Hurcombe, Jacob, Herbert, Loutit, Fowler, Clarke, Smith, Driden and about 30% of the men. About 20% are Anzacs - but we lost a lot to supply 'old hands' to form 4th Div. Artillery. We have a solid Battn. now - tip top for desert work. The trench work only required 'brute force' - here there is scope for brains & ability. - A desert 'scrap' would do us good - our lads are trained right up to the mark & I am proud of my men. They are simply great. I enclose the only good photo of my old platoon - names are enclosed in a separate slip. Those marked x are with me. We go back to Trench life for a few days, & then we hope its "To France". Giles, Shaw & Hamilton are with 10th - & Shaw is a Major now. All who came from 10th are prom. now - Clark & Fowler are Capts. though junior to me. I did Captns work from Sept to March & only got Lieut pay as well as losing much seniority. 
However I have got my company, & all I want now is to take them into action & get them back victorious. As for V.C., DS0, well some are 'won' others are not - so there's not too much satisfaction in getting one - so long as one does his job thoroughly as a Christian soldier, officer, & gentleman, & leaves or goes through this show with a white name - that's all that counts. Some say a lot about 'Duty' - too many do one side of Duty - (parade duty &c) - but a man has to be well nigh perfect to do his Duty properly. I realise my incapacity - & earnestly try to become more efficient - and push on to fulfil the term in its full sense. All will come O.K. in the end - I close now with very much love - best of good wishes, & hopes you are as well as I am Rollo.