
Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Location: Somewhere in France
Date:  4 November 1916
Nationality: Australian

Text:  Field card - I am well - & recd. letter end Sept. Rollo. S. in France 5.11.16 Once again we hear the roar of guns, & in this new Hades we find it not only a very hot place, but very liquidy too. From all accounts the very earth here is becoming semi-liquid. The mud is awful - & conditions render any great advance impossible - while it is a problem to keep our front line from slithering away in the slime.  Commun. trenches are impassible, & all traffic from rear to front is done by night and overland, - incidentally falling into great shell holes full of liquid mud.  We are being well fitted out for going into action under such conditions.  We ought not to be cold for we wear - singlet, flannel shirt, cardigan or jersey, tunic, then a sheepskin jerkin, & on top a greatcoat - so we will be alright about the body. - whilst with whale oil, waders, rubbers, two sets of gloves, (one fur lined) we ought to keep free from Chilblains.  We are well looked after, & our only 'grouse' is that we can't fix up a truce for the winter months. We've had a record shift.  In 10 nights seven diff. billets - so we've done some travelling this trip. We get a fine insight into the characteristics of the French people this way - One of the places we stayed at was a school house, & the master was much interested by what I told him about S. Aust.  At another place

5.11.1916  we had a grumpy old farmer - who begrudged selling straw for my boys to lie on, he did all he could to make himself disagreeable;- but he was an exception. French cost of living is very high - & they do not waste any foodstuffs.  Sugar is extremely dear - & meat a luxury. Eggs are also dear - & the French are by no means as well off as the English - who in comparison scarcely realise that there is a war at all I am very sorry to be an Australian since that Referendum & must now call myself a Britisher & be proud of that. It seems rot for a nation to turn its sons down when they are fighting for it. - Here we are risking every - thing for Australia - & giving our lives willingly, and now they spurn the idea of properly reinforcing us.  A more hellish idea has never been done that to NO the Conscription Referendum - & Hughes seems to us to be an oily-tongued devil.  He well knew the condition of the A.I.F., & should at once have declared for conscription & adequate reinforcements "straight out - without referring the matter to a lot of people who have no idea of our situation.  If I have luck to get back I will make a warm corner for some of the great "shirkers" - Our companies are only about ½ strength, & many are physically weak - for in spite of medical testimony only men between 20 & 30 can stand the strain
At least 7 of my men are unfit on a/c of age - & out of 104 men only 3 are over 35 & fit for action The boozer soon gives to the pack - & is an impediment so I make a practice of getting rid of my drunks quickly That is what makes it so galling that fellows in Aust. in their prime - wowsers & others - vote NO - or in other words say - "Yes - let the silly volunteer fools get cut up." - & then they'll get our jobs. Well this is a weird sort of Xmas. letter to send - & for the third time I'll be away from home at Xmas. I quite thought we'd be back before this - but it will mean at least six more months here - and when it's over you can count me a "homer" in spite of all my wandering.  I suppose George will be home when you get this - and keen on making his start in the North Sea.  It is some time since I saw a Xmas tree - but next year I hope to make up for it. I'm as fit as a fiddle - sincerely trust you are the same, - my thoughts will be particularly with you all on December 25th - so accept my best wishes for a Very Merry Xmas - & an exceedingly Happy & Prosperous New Year to you all.  Much love to you all from Rollo. I hope the weather clears up about my birthday - If the ground is dry I'll get a bit of my own back from Fritz.
