
Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Location: Sinai Desert
Regiment: Front Line Canal Defences Adrian's Wall Date: 21 May 1916
Nationality: Australian

Text: 
 We're still here - told will be "off to France in a few days" but I truly believe we are the Australian Israelites. Nearly 5 months now we've been training in the desert - always the word is being passed "off to France". We are the A.I. looking for the Promised Land in the fertile plains of the sun-baked Sinai Desert. Hope I don't get stretched out here - for it would be hard work "pushing the daisies up" in this hole. Sun, sand, flies, heat, hot winds, work & a fine large thirst is the sum of our lives just now - Thank God we get cool nights - & a good rest then - as we 'Stand to' at 3.30 - & keep going all day. We are no longer the "Muckshieb Flying Column" as it was not necessary for us to turn out, so we are again blankety, blank, blinking diggers - or Infantry only. Just in front of us is a long high & steep ridge which is known as Adrian's Wall. My Co. is split into 3 parts - each garrisg certain works - my front covers 2 ½miles - so by the time I have finished my job I have done some travelling. I am lucky in having a horse. Yesterday I had to ride back to Railhead on Battn biz - & passed our mails going in so you can reckon I got back to Camp in quick time
It was dark when I got back - (no lights allowed in camp) - but I rigged up a concealed light & read my mail. Today I'm able to reply to part of it. Thanks again for congrats. I should have had my Cptncy. long ago - but Beevor wouldn't recommend it right away as it would have blocked some of his cronies - who were recuperating in Blighty. I was from Aug. doing Capt. work on Gallipoli - & my promotion was very belated. We have just recd notice to dispose of our cameras not even allowed to carry them in our trunks, but I will try & get mine along as I dont want to part with it. I shall have to describe France per pen only Some undeveloped films will be in my trunk - but I'm afraid the heat will spoil them. All the exposed films have pencil marks on the bands around boxes. I will sent prints back before we leave for France for censorship is very strict over there. We are all trying to pick up 'French' - but I'm too busy to make a study of it. I got on O.K. in Egypt without knowing Arabic - & at Lemnos - Greek, so I'm not worrying much & anyhow too busy. I have several SE boys here - 2 Narracoorte, 2 Kalang., one Mt Gam. & Milton Stanway - who is a good man & should soon be O.K. in taking charge of a section.
My Co. is a very good one - the Q.M.S. is not quite up to his job of Administration - but I am giving him another chance - but if through faulty returns on his part 20 men go hungry - well a repetition will mean he will be dropped hard. Something is wrong with our Educ Youd be surprised to see how few accurate returns are sent in. I am fortunate in having good N.C.O. - four of my best - Bowden, Riggs, Storey, & Baynes were given comms. Cheney is R.S.M. while Crake has been made R.O.M.S - so I lost six of my best N.C.O. - (the 6 vertebrae of my company's backbone) - & the new ones, tho' triers are not up to their quality yet. Scott is with me - I sent a special request for him - he is working hard for a stripe - & is no longer my batman Since Oct. - White has been my batman - but he is also too good & I will soon send him back to get his stripe. No more news at present - so close with best wishes, much love, & hopes that you are as well as I am. Rollo  Left ∧ "E. Canal Zone" for Egypt May 29th 1916 Crossed Canal " 31st Alexandria " June 1st Left for France " June 2nd Diary continued - France 