Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Location: France Date: 2 October 1916
Nationality: Australian

Text:   Dear Father & Mother  Although I do not feel capable of making a   decent fist of it - I am going to attempt giving you a full a/c   of my trip to England. I am not sure if dates are correct - or   that the sequence of visits is O.K.  - but the variations will only be about   4 hours. The 'leave party' from our Bn consisted of Clark, Monte,   & myself with 4 N.C.Os - none of them were any particular chums   - so they scarcely crop up in my doings On the afternoon of the 17th the C.O. was good enough to save us   rising at 4 a.m. next day - by allowing us to proceed to Hazebrouck  overnight - thus saving us much early morning travelling. We left   at about 9 am. on the 18th Sept. France was miserably muddy, wet,  & gloomy and I felt elated to get away from it. At Boulogne we boarded a transport as soon as possible, & were awfully afraid   of being suddenly called back to H.Q. before we'd got away. However we left Boulogne at last & had a rough time crossing   quite 50% being "upsy". On board I met Gordon Cornish & Cliff Boone,   returning to Salisbury Camp - I hadn't seen G.C. since Aug 15, nor Cliff since Nov. 14 - so you can imagine the joy at meeting. Poor   Cliff lost his brother Reg at Pozieres Windmill - (an old 79th). We gladly sighted the chalk cliffs at Folkestone, rather a dirty   greyish color - & not the poetical silver white we expected - and   I felt 10 yrs. younger a few minutes later when seated in a   train & being whizzed up towards London. It was late afternoon   but the weather was fine, & the everchanging vistas constantly   flashing by held my breath & gaze all the time.


88




89
Visit to England. 18th Sept
The hop fields, the meadows, real Arcadian woods, pretty little   villages, all ran into one another - but I was able to appreciate   the beauty of it all instead of it being a kaliedoscope blur. Just as darkness was falling we got into thickly populated parts - towns full of streets with closely packed houses, & so on, and soon a huge building loomed up in front of us. An English  officer interested in my intense admiration of the trip - told   me this was the "Crystal Palace". Then we ran through a   long tunnel right under the Palace - & soon glided into  Victoria St. Railway Station. We soon detrained, strolled   along the platform, & out through the barrier into the waiting   crowd looking out for their dear ones home by that train. Pathetic were the sights, and I was glad to get away. We got into the street mesmerised by the dimly lit scene, & constant whirling streams of people - busses & taxis - but devil   a taxi could we get. So we did the next best thing and   asked a policeman - who soon put us on to Bus No 77 -  change at Charin' Cross - & get a No 11. The policemen of London live up to their reputation & are a marvellous & fine lot. On board 77 we went down Fleet St & passed Horseferry Road, Trafalgar Sq.   to Charing Cross - & then No 11 took us down streets whose names   I don't remember - but anyhow we saw all the lions of the   place that first night - Whitehall, The Abbey, Houses of Parl,   War Office, Admiralty, Horse Guards, India Office &c. Mighty glad did we feel - & also much like ducks out of water as we strolled into the dining room of a fine hotel.



90



91
English trip contd. Sept 18
This was one of London's best hotels - "The Imperial" but we were   not in brilliant mess uniform. I was wearing my old service dress,   muddy looking leggings, service boots, & dirty old spurs, but we sat down to one of the finest meals I have ever had. Fine thick carpet underfoot, snow-white linen cloth, decent cutlery, with flowers galore as decoration, & such a 'spread' - well such things   we hadn't seen for many a long day, whilst a band - all elderly men - played beautiful music. We stayed on in the dining room till 9.30 - then went upstairs to bed (think of it)   and you may guess we slept well. That little spell was worth   5 years - as I deliberately forgot entirely the existence of the 50th   for the time being - so as to have an absolute rest & I got it  Next morning after a hot bath (!) & breakfast I hurried out   to interview tailors, base-kit stores,  & so on to get ourselves   respectably attired - and at lunch time we were far from home. The useful police put us wise to a good place to lunch - hence   we arrived at the 'Trocadero'. The place was crowded, and I   was slowly working in, when I suddenly heard a familiar voice   sing out "Taka heena Army" - a pure Anzac cry from Egypt. I looked round & caught sight of Murray Fowler waving a napkin at me – & there in a mob around his big table - I saw Hancock, Monte, Blackburn, Giles, McCan, Jose, Inglis  (all old 10th) Day, Bailly, 27th & Hewitt of Artillery - all our   S. A. chums - & you can imagine how Cornish & I welcomed them That meal cost us £9.18.0 - but Blackburn doesn't get the V.C. every day, so it was excusable. We spent the afternoon




92




93
London trip contd      Sept 19. 
at the Hippodrome in the Royal Box - "Flying Colours" and this cost us 5 or 6 gs. I'm afraid we rather took charge of the show - but - McCann does not get the M.C. every day - Then we had dinner together - & bang went many more   sixpences - more theatre - "Happy Day" - and I remember joining in with the song "The Perfect Day" before parting. It was a perfect day too I can assure you, the best & first time I have ever been 'perfect' in all my life - but it was worth it - for you can't imagine how pleased we ten of the old 10th were to be together once more. Very penitently next morning I went to Service at The Abbey - & then walked round it. I would have preferred to go   about on my own - but the commercial spirit pervades even the Abbey, & we were carted round by a guide, who spoke of the 'Show' in much the same way as one would have the murderers at a Waxworks described. I soon lost that party & fossicked round by myself. Zep. raids have caused certain precautions to be taken to   protect the most valuable & sacred relics - which were reposing   in vaults - whilst many famous tombs were sand-bagged - so   that the war seemed near even in that famous Church. It was splendid to have a decent Church Service again, & I purchased a fine handbook - it will do fine for School Library. The vastness & scope of the architectural beauty of the Abbey is  indescribable, one felt awed to see the carving, & as for the  masonry & the building I cannot describe it adequately so say nix.  


94




95
London Sep 19-21 (cont)   After lunch went a Parl. House - had a look round - but the actual "meeting room" was closed. Visited the famous Whispering   Gallery - listened to our gentle angel footsteps (!) (awful noise), &   also took in Westminster Bridge same trip. Old Big Ben is   a monster - but looks fine & speaks plainly. I deliberately walked past the Mounted Guardsmen at the Horse Guards to get the salute (first time I've pandied to   get one) but it was worth it - it made one feel a soldier. That evening I spent at one of the theatres. Next day - about the 21st - I went to Buckingham Palace to watch the Guards change over. The Guards were in field   dress - but the bandsmen in Review order. It was a grand   sight - fine band, splendid parade ground - but I guarantee  my old C Cy. with a band & similar surroundings would make as   good a showing as the best of the Guards - Anyhow they   couldn't teach us much. From there I went to the 'Tower' - extremely interested in the Beefeaters - all old warriors - Tel El Kebir ribbon 87, Boer War  81, Boer Wars, Afghanistan, New Zealand ribbons & medals. Most   of them have about 4 ribbons & appear to be going strong. One of them took me over the Tower - & brushed up my History   well. I bought pictures of this place too & a handbook for reference. The Armory was most interesting ranging from a B.C. helmet   to the fine suit made for Chas II by his admirers. This of course   is all obsolete now - except the cuirass (artificial) of some Guards,  & our trench helmets are copies of the old steel hats - whilst   some [[faddists?]] wear patent bullet proof waistcoats.


96


97
London Visit (contd.) 97   The Roman catapults in the Armory & we used the same things at  Gallipoli & in France for tossing bombs long distances - the French  mortar is an old weapon we use with stronger explosives - as  for arrows the Germans drop them from their aeroplanes -  Chinese used stink pots hundreds of years of ago - we use  tear & mustard gas shells - we pelt bombs at each other  while old Goliath got in the way of a pebble - so we are  not very much more civilised today.  The Tower has been subjected to various alterations -  but you know I love History - so you can guess I had  a real feast that morning, I visited the Tower Bridge,  a fine piece of engineering, & saw it in action.  During the afternoon I strolled down the Strand - saw our  new Australia House - a fine building. Aldwych is near  the Strand - there I saw the most uptodate business bldgs.  not sky scrapers - but plain solid Foy & Gibson sort of places.  I also went down Fleet St., The Mall, under the Marble  Arch, & round to the famous Courts.  The 22nd I put in by getting into touch with my wounded  boys - & general sightseeing - & in the evening went to St Pauls.  I stood by the Iron Duke's tomb - recalled Tennyson's Ode -  Next day I set out for Liverpool & had a most charming  trip this time through the Midlands We passed Rugby, Harrow,  Crewe &c - & saw the first named College from the train - & felt glad  to see the scene of Tom Brown's school days. The country is  splendid - but different to France & Belgium where every inch is used


98




Liverpool &c   It almost hurt me to see the tenement houses crammed  in the towns of England, all alike - & bespeaking the landlord  system & rent yoke. It seemed an awful shame not to own  one's home. I arrived at Lpool just at dusk & set out to  dig out the Boltons right away. I'm afraid they looked  out for a 6' 6" Anzac wearing kangaroo feathers &c - for I  passed by Cis - ( she was wearing specs. so I didn't know her,  but when I saw Fred I knew him at once. Cis insulted  me by saying I looked "like a Tommy officer" H! - altho'  I deliberately speak Australian & walk like an Australian -  so no more flash uniforms for me.  Kirkdale is a miserable place - almost a slum- but  Bolton's house is part of the mill - about 8 or 9 rooms -  electric light & gas (no rent &c) - so they are very comfortable.  I think Fred would make a big mistake to leave his billet  for an uncertain one in Aussy. The Boltons are a fine  family & treated me right royally. Cousin Hannah is a  real little brick - Cis & Flo very expert musicians, & Cis  is a very good artist as well. The first evening was gone  in short time talking about Australia & you folks - It was  fine - ( as Fred would say "Champion"!)- but of course we  could not leave Gallipoli or the Somme alone - Cis & Flo  had just returned from a trip to Dysaerth (-Wales) - from  their description it would be a most beautiful place.  Fred took me on Sunday morning (24th) to the city - & we saw  some fine buildings - many of them (Cunard's &c) really immense.


Liverpool trip (23rd Sept 1916)   Then we went to the Landing Stage - & crossed over to  Brighton on one of the ferry boats, so getting a fine view  of the docks as we did so. I saw many famous boats  all in the Mersey at the one time. The Mauretania as  a hospital ship reminded me of the time I saw  her at Mudros - so did the Olympic - whilst the  "Carmania " looked fit for several more "Cap Trafalgars"  Most trade is down to Americans ships like St Louis,  Philadelphia & so on- because the U boats are supposed to  shy at Mr Wilson's notes.  We had a pleasant walk - on the Cheshire side on a fine  esplanade about 9 mls. long - but Hoylake was at other end.  In the afternoon went to Aintree - visited Jessie Palmer -  (husband Jack steward on "Carpathia ") I also looked over  the famous race course - & the largest munition works in Blighty.  Monday had a look over the "Carpathia" & in the afternoon with  Cis went to Waterloo & saw, Cousin Will - Susie, & afterwards on  to see Letty - Simpkin - & the nipper - & had tea at Lizzies place  Kitty & Cousin Will had arrived home then - They didn't ask  me much about Eddy - for which I was thankful as I knew  very little. Poor Fred - I reckon those two would be in khaki  now if they'd had a chance. On 26th again did Liverpool -  & all too soon came the 27th when I got back to London. On the  27th I saw some of mine at Wandsworth, & then on 28th took  train back for France. I had a good time, & am now fresh &  invigorated ready for the Ypres Salient. Boltons were tip top. Much love from your loving son, Rollo.