Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Location: Serapeum Date: 23 April 1916
Nationality: Australian

Text:  This time last year we lay at Fremantle, & were receiving rumors of Allied landing at Eros & Seros. I also saw Uncle Will that day,  & next day the last of Australia. Just a year ago (20th) since I left Adelaide & the 17th was the anniversary of the day I left home. Many events & changes have taken place since then - many friends, - dear friends too, like [[Mann?]] & Holmes, have gone - & I have had some squeaks too. I can tell you this portion of the year will always be very sacred to me - "Anzac Day" will be treated as a "beano" by some folks probably - but I am standing out of that This day was the beginning of Australia's glorious, if sad, military history in this war. - I have been through a fair bit during the last year - have seen many sights, pleasing, horrible, awe inspiring, & hellish, but as far as I can say the effect has only been to broaden my experience, make me a little more serious & tho I've had a promotion or two - I think I am the same old "Armie" as of yore. I suppose the nippers at home are changing. I can see that G.& H. have grown marvellously according to their photos, - you didn't send one of Wumps - but you two look the same as ever. I hope this & other years to come will bring no other changes. Hancock is Capt. now (Junior to me) - so we are both Comp. C.O. - sleep alongside in our valises, & on the 20th were awake till 1 am. discussing our old times on the "Hororata." I'll never forget the quiet way that ship left the buoy at Largs & was moving 2 hours before we knew it, but of course we were below settling the boys down, & had no time to notice other things. Wumps was on the wharf that day - (disobeyed my orders) - but when I return there will be no orders about not coming down to meet me. I hope we will be back by Xmas, as in no jingo spirit - I'm certain that a 'nut cracker' action on the Huns from all quarters of the Front will break him up completely. You will be reading of this action about the time this gets to you - and I hope we'll be there somewhere too. We don't want to be in this awful desert any longer- we'd rather fight the Huns but failing that the Mesopot. fighting would be in our line too The L.H. are having some fun - Sometimes I wish I was with them - for it is rumored that we intend to move on towards Jerusalem inland. (Ken Mc has just brought in some Houghton apples - he's gone now - (so have 2 or 3 apples) - the first fresh fruit I've had for months) - It's about time we made a push & good luck to the 9th L.H. if the rumor is correct - Two of our divisions are in France now - been there about a month. We were much amused to read that they were in Russia. Greece is still at "Yes - No " point - I would dearly love to see the Navy wade in, & topple down a few of her towns - it would please Anzacs immensely. 
Today is Easter Sunday & this day last year me were together at Mitcham Camp. I was thinking at Church Parade today what fine Easter Days we used to have at Houghton - I can never forget those Easter Monday pic-nics - the grounds at Htn. were a grand spot for pic-nics. I am wondering of Ken is right in saying you'd be at Htn. today & what you are doing - I wonder if you'll be on the platform at the Anniv. on Monday night. Remember the last time you were there Oct 1 1913 My thoughts are too much for my pen - I will wait awhile & write again later. A soldiers life does not make me "stoney-hearted" - at times like this, one becomes a real "sentimental bloke" I enclose photos of myself taken at Cairo & the snaps I took at the Barrage & Zoo (clinkers too) - as well as some for Harry. My photo is not too good. Darned tired Best of all good wishes, & hopes you are as well as I am - much love to all from, Rollo.