Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Location: Mudland Date: 30 November 1916
Nationality: Australian

Text: 

 Dear Father, Mother & All, - I’ve just got 20 min. to reply to yours of Oct. 15 - just recd - so I will have to write like greased lightning to get done in time. Thank you very much for your splendid birthday parcel & the cable which I recd. - the parcel was tip-top - & could not have been more welcome than it was - for we are having rather a "rough spin" physically at any rate. Your letter was more pleasing than getting a D.S.O &c - thank God I have not to get a decoration to show what I’m made of - Major Herbert- or Beresford & Rule can give you full information re our first stunt.-  I must confess when we found how the decorations went for that first stunt - & I was in the cold - I candidly spoke my mind to the originator of that Aug 14th stunt - for the M.C. given to C.S was earned by my men. - However its over & done with now & I am satisfied to be without it - & hope none come my way later on. We are still under fire & above (or in) mud - & we expect to be well out of the front line before Xmas - The Brigadier has been well pleased with my men, & held up their work (under snow & slush conditions) as an example for the other cos. to follow.
I suppose George is getting excited as he will be leaving soon.  It will be hard on you to have two of us here but I am sure you are proud of the fact that your boys have the mental & moral as well as physical guts - to take up their positions in the country’s ranks - instead of shirking behind “cold-footed’ excuses Anyhow no young fellow can surely stay behind with peace of mind at a time like this I will apply for leave so as to meet G. in England soon after he comes - & you might let me know roughly the date you anticipate he will land. G. can look after himself I know - he will think too much of you at home - to make his actions other than what you’d like - so he’ll be O.K. Harry is having a rough spin for his boyhood - but thank God he hopes to follow in our steps.  I expect he is looking forward to his school life in town & if he goes to a boy's school - he will be O.K. as long as it is not the S.M. & J. prepar. which is not educational. I hope you’ll be nearer town soon so as to miss that long & expensive railway journey.  The mailman is waiting for me - so I’ll close with best of all good wishes for the New Year - happiness, success, good health, & prosperity with much love from Your Loving Rollo I hope Wumps is satisfied & kept in her old positions