Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Location: Frogland Date: 12 February 1917
Nationality: Australian

Text:   Dear Father & Mother, - Just had word from Dad - (20.12.16) which puts me on pins & needles for it states that G was likely to be on the "Omrah" which is supposed to be due in London on the 14th - & most unfortunately on that date we go back to the front for our second tour.  So it will not be possible for me to dream of getting leave for another 10 or 11 days - so you can imagine how I feel. However the Omrah may be delayed, that might to mean that when I get to England G. should be kicking about somewhere. Anyhow it is pretty certain that I will be in London before this letter gets far towards Australia. I hope he makes straight for L-pool.  I'll go there too as soon as I get my bag of glad rags. Things liven up here occasionally Fritz is likely trying 'gas' - but we are very well equipped against this, so that if Fritz comes over after 'gas' to see how we like it - he will find us going strong.  Raids come off now & then - & Fritz must be praying that Bill will soon say "Nuff" - for he is getting very much worried in this bit of the world.
Submarines seem a bit busy just now, but the R.N. will soon fix them up.  Perhaps there is some advantage - if the people in England are a bit pinched they will realise a war is on - altho' unfortunately many people (like us) who realise the gravity of the position are rather pinched already. I hope to have a look round the E End of London - things must be awful there especially during this terrible cold weather. The frost still holds - well for us - & I hope it does so till we get well to the rear.  For when the thaw comes it will be 'hell' up here. Les Pelman got us far as Etaples (our Depot) but he was still across to the 27th.  One of the Lamberts (Hermitage) is in my Co. but I don't remember him - there were so many of that clan. Wilf Edwards just wrote - & I've had an A.M.S mag - I must write to Reggie West. The cold plays up with our boys feet - & our boys are not getting fair play.  The 3rd Div has not yet been in action - but some day they'll learn a war is on. U.S.A is cooling off - as you were. No more news - best of all good wishes, good luck & prosperity with very much love from Your loving son, Rollo. Birthday greetings to Dad.