Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury

Location: Dardanelles Turkey 
Date: 4 July 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:  I am writing on 5th to last leaf of pad - so for a while folks will have to go short until fresh supplies arrive. Mail recd. this morning - papers &c - & Wumps sent along my photo which I am forwdg to Boltons with letter on its back. Wish I’d had my Sam Brown on when I was taken - but I was on a flying visit to Ad. at time, & was also a bit weary - just off train from Millicent. I suppose your holidays are on & Wumps in the thick of her “Essay”.  How is George getting on?  I guess he is sorry the war is just two years too soon for him, & anyhow I have seen 'active service' before he has. Things are much the same here we get a few more shells put among us - but otherwise we are simply harassg the Turks & keeping him from reinforcing ‘down South’. The Tommies are going the pace down there - have almost enveloped Krythen & in a few days we expect to see them on top of Achi Baba - the Gallipolian proposition is a harder nut than was expected - To say the least - Jacko is well entrenched & established - so that they are a great thorn in our side.  There are several other ‘Achi Babas’ on this peninsula, lucky will be the man who goes into every action & comes out O.K.  Several 10th officers have been mentioned in despatches - I fear there will be some “dirty linen to wash at the end of the war - in connection with some - (Lor... o - R:mb-ll - & H..b..t).  Anyhow if it should be my luck to be ‘mentioned’ - I hope I will have done something to deserve it. 
I had a little sport during week ‘sniping snipers’.  One of our observers (Sig. Walker) got hold of a fine telescope, and with a little ingenuity fixed it to the periscope.  He & I found a nest of these snipers well hidden in an artificial bush, & were most excellently camouflaged.  Having found them we had to get them, but it was very risky without exposing ourselves to their trenches.  Anyhow after our first shots at them - and lobbing a few inches from them - raising dust from their ‘painted sand-bags’ they stopped smiling (they had seemed very happy before) & began to look for us.  While doing this Walker sniped & I observed - I got him right on to one who dropped.  This spot has not been occupied since.  I feel positive it was from this plant - that many Queenslanders were sniped the other day, whilst on a daylight stunt - That day I saw within 300 yds of me - about 150 Qs . killed & wounded and about 50 W.A.s.  We could not make out where shots were coming from.  Turks conceal snipers in absolutely marvellous positions.  There is no doubt we will win through - but it is going to be at a huge cost - We have much more to learn yet, but we will learn & improve on that. Although beginning to feel the monotony of the trenches our boys are comparatively cheerful.  I am sending along one or two true happenings.  When a shell lobs near - our boys imitate Jacko -“Allah Allah” in most mournful tones - also during our sojourn 
in Egypt - they picked up much Egyptn. bad language - & this comes forth when shells are flying.  Our boys are beautiful linguists - the majority swear fluently in Australian - & almost the same number use very many untranslatable 'gyppo' expressions.  It is a pity - but many have gone out while using foul language. Some can’t speak a sentence without swearing.  In ‘C’. Co. we are campaigning in favor of the good old Shakespearean 'Zounds' - 'by my halberd', 'Gadzooks' &c., in place of language generally used - & I might say we’ve had very satisfactory results.  It is funny to hear a chap ask - Whose zounding turn is it to carry the … water?”  Poor beggars.' I’m afraid Capt. Shaw has been a bit too classical. 7. 5. 15 Well we are having 2 or 3 days rest in a gully not far from the firing line - only it's no rest only a change - for we have lots of ‘fatigues’ - & we are training our men to work out the instances of trench life. Col Weir inspected each Co. of Battn. today, platoon by platoon - My platoon was complimented for cleanliness, steadiness, & the state of rifles - & the C.O. seemed very pleased with my work.  Anyhow he told the Battn that ‘C.’ Co was the criterion for other Cos. to follow.  Also he gave us the most welcome news that we are going away to a place right away from the firing line for a good, quiet week’s rest.  Study your map.  I am glad for trench 
work becomes very monotonous.  I have been here five weeks & am now half way into sixth week.  My men have not yet come up - but are expected daily.  They are about fed up with Egypt.  They'd had enough when I left - & weather has been terrific since then - 122o, 116o, & 121o in shade!! We officers have subs. to a memorial to be created over the spot where Gen. Bridges fell, I have hunted for Gordon’s grave - but can’t find it. Capt. Kayser thinks as Munro was a fair distance from him - & it happened right at the beginning of the action - that the spot is somewhere out in front of our right flank - or else right in Turks' lines.  Also many who fell those first four days were simply covered over where they lay. So  I very much fear poor old Gordon’s remains are lost.  Several of us have been trying to find out - but nothing definite can be discovered.  We unfortunately have quite a large cemetery on the beach - most buried here are known, & crosses have been erected over them - I have looked round for Alfie Possingham's but I can’t find it.  His may be down S. for the Brigade was sent S. for a few days.  I shall be glad to get out of this away from flies & shells - we are very cramped - & it will be a pleasure to get into a place where we don’t have to turn into rabbits & burrow in holes.  Also we are practically gooled here - Firing line forms a breast work that anyone seen above it gets shots whistling "Hullo”  at once - & the other gate - the 'Sea' - is controlled by an 'Embarkation officer’. Considering all things health is excellent. Capt Hill’s lectures to 
have brought good fruit - but as mid-summer is now here - we naturally get many flies - but care & cleanliness can even beat them. Wumps can tell Mrs Lushy about Gordon & myself following in Kinglake's footsteps.  K. told us in 'Eothen' about the plains of Tovey - (which we can see) Samothrace - Imbros - & even Cairo, - so we are doing well.  Rigby's have copies - get her to obtain one & send it on to me if she likes - One of your Woodchester old boys introduced himself the other day. Qr. Master Sergeant Rice of our Co. & he is a good chap - do you remember him.  I must congratulate you mum on picking these socks they are tip-top - not a sign of a hole in either of pair I’m wearing & they’ve had some work too. S pace alone is causing me to ‘shut up' - I hope paper & envelopes are well on their way here now.  I hope you are all well.  I am tip top - collecting curios - will tell you about them later. (Gaba Tepe) Island of Imbros         10 7. 15. Just a short note before we go back to Hades again 13. 7. 15. I’d just started to write above when I was called away to a fatigue party to land stores, & have not been able to get at this since, but I will [*Imbros*] describe our first (& all too short) remove from the front out of reach of shells, shrapnel, flies &c. A few mornings ago whilst it was dark we embarked on a trawler - & went away to Imbros. 
Des. of trip to Imbros 13.7.15  Every yard we got further away from Anzac Cove  made us feel very much better - it was a great relief  to get out of the reach of Beachy Bill & his shrapnel,  and to say good-bye to machine gun fire. Our nerves  were speedily brought back to normal. There is no  doubt about it - but anyone's nerves get shaky  after a few days of shrapnel - especially as we put  in such long periods. Battns in France do 3  weeks in trenches 2 weeks rest - we have done  nearly 12 weeks' trenches - 3 days at Imbros &  4 days 'Hades' i.e. attempting to rest at Beach &  a certain gully at Anzac. We are back in the fire  line again - very much better for our short and  peaceful sojourn. Our battn is well up to Strength  now - my boys arrived while I was away, & I  have many of them in my platoon. Lynch - my  Actg. Sgt. Major is with me in the platoon, & the other  lads are doing well. One has been 'put out' already  Pri. Waite - stray shrapnel pellet got him in the  heart - while Weaver & Harrison were wounded  just before I arrived. 3 of them Wright, Frear, &  Kellett - are invalided to Aussie - so a hole has  been made in my little band already. I wish I had  sole charge of them - they were the best disciplined  & trained troops that have left Australia. Poor little  Gurmoni has been shaken up by shrapnel - His  nerves went after 3 days - & I'm afraid he'll have  to go to hospital to recuperate. Some played up in  [Seppo?]. Some got 28, some 14, some 7 days while there 
other warfare than trench. 10.30 dismissed, three  men limited. I got out as much as I could & made  the best use of my short visit. On the first day  4 of us went to Aerial Station - (3 ½ mls rough track)  & were shown over the station, & had the pleasure of  witnessing two or three departures & arrivals of hydros.  They seemed well nigh perfect. We tried to see if there  was any chance of a ride - but only Artil. observ.  officers go as passengers so we had no hope.  Next day a party of 60 of us left camp - 10.30 - on  ponies to visit Parlegere - the largest village. We  had one of the most picturesque rides I've ever seen,  Mt Bera - Cudlee Creek - well we rode up gullies  much similar in appearance - covered with bracken  -paths or tracks rough & stony - & only allowed one file.  As we got higher gullies became narrower - but in  some parts Greeks had managed to grow crops of  wheat, while I stained my jacket with mulberry  juice - & at one farmhouse were able to get apples,  pears, & a poor type of cherry. When almost at  the top - we came to a most beautiful spring - clear  cool, running water -(tip-top). At the top the view  was marvellous - sea in the distance - town & port of  Castro mounted high on leeward side of a bluff, - a  huge, fertile, well cultivated Mt Gambier flat in the  middle of which stood Panegere - nestling among  many green trees. The view was great. Think that less  than 20 miles behind the scene of peace & content
but I blame officers in charge for that. They did  not hold the men, nor take any interest in them  We're glad to have them here anyhow.  -------------  I will give you some news of Imbros - it is only  11 miles by 15 m. roughly - surrounded by the  bluest of the Medit. It was once volcanic, two or  three hills have extinct craters on top - Even now  two or three earthquakes occur or the year is incomplete.  There are 7 villages & 2 ports on it. Kephalos  on E side is a great base - full of war ships, stores,  soldiers, & naval aerial station. We were camped at  Kephalos on a stubble field - Fancy 3 days under  canvas - & sleeping on blankets over 6" of straw -  fancy unlimited supplies of fresh water for washing  & drinking purposes - fancy nice WHITE fresh  bread for every meal - fancy no harassing  'Stand -to' , no sound of shrapnell shells &c -  why we were in absolute Elysium fields - Only  a few chains away were stores. 2 ½ lb tin peaches  3/6 - Apricots 2/6, eggs 1d each - chocs & so on-  & you can guess we did V. well. Lived like kings  for those 3 days - & had an absolute rest - Reveille  was blown 5.30 a.m by C.O did not curse anyone -  so long as camp was cleaned up & men on parade 8.30  From then till 10 - March in file up hills - & then  practice 2 or 3 formations - so as to be prepared for
Imbros.  was a Hell. Anyhow Panegere greeted us in  narrow, winding, flagstoned streets with cries of "Good  Australians" &c. The Greeks seemed very pleased  see us there. We had lunch - & pottered about till  4.30 p.m. & then home about 8 p.m. We had a  very Enjoyable trip & benefits were great - in food  note-paper, fruit, chocolate &c.. Those, who wished,  even obtained 'wine'. The morality of these Greeks  forms a great contrast to the immorality of Egypt  We weren't even chased by small fry for backsh  Greeks anyhow these here - especially appealed  to me - They have a hard simple, agric. life yet  seem quite happy. On their farms we saw the  old method of "treading the corn" winnowing by  tossing, milling in the old fashioned mill &c.  Woman are very pretty when young - & extremely ugly  as they get aged. I tried to get some G. post stamps  but none obtainable. I got an old coin from a  joker I called Spigoli - who was my guide. The  Greeks here were only too pleased to do anything  for us - & in return the conduct of troops was most  excellent. One shop keeper got our autographs,  & persisted in getting us to write 'Australia' after  our names. Anyhow our "peace-period" soon passed  away, & all too soon were we packed on to trawlers,  & sent once more to the Anzac Front lines.
Rollo.