
Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Location: Somewhere in France Date: 14 July 1916
Nationality: Australian

Text:
 Since I wrote we have travelled very many miles, & are now a good distance from the firing line.  Our boys are not yet in the Somme battle area - but we are being held up in readiness to take our part soon. At present we are being stiffened up - plenty of marches 50th has footed over 40 miles last 3 days. Entrained and detrained twice, - and we are regular veterans as regards "being on the tramp".  All our gear is cut down to the minimum, - our transport follows us everywhere in rear of each Co. is the "Cooker" - with steam up, fires burning. Everything ready for our grub.  A fine idea.
This morning (4.30) we marched 8 miles without brekker - to this village -  (don't know the name yet) - which is about 12 miles from Doullens - on Germany side. The inhabitants are the most rural folk I ever saw & we were the first "Aussies" they had met - so that we had a rough spin at first;- barn doors locked, barb wire across lanes, and one or two places we had to literally force open.  However they are quite nice to us & civilised now, & will do anything for us The lady with whom Todd (2 in C.) & I were billeted was a very crusty sort at first - but now she has changed right round, after grudgingly giving us a room. She can't do enough for us now - has found room for our 'domestiques' - (batmen) & my "Chevaux".  The mare has a tip-top stable - & as for wheaten hay - well the old dame just now gave the mare almost a complete haystack. At another place we were in (Estaires) Todd & I had great luck.  We arrived after a night march at 3.30am just as it was getting light.  The lady got up - made us some coffee, & my word it was good. We were there only 12 hours - but she looked after us well.  Her only son 'went out' last year - so you can guess her feelings against the "Allemandes" were intense. That same afternoon Major Herbert & I were selected by the C.O to represent the 50th at a 


34


Mayoral Garden Party or At Home - and it was dead funny.  The hosts could not "compre" us, nor could we "compre" them, - but we had a good time. so you can guess it was a funny old life we had. This village doesn't hold one inhabitant who can "parlez vous Anglais", & as we "non compre Francais" we get along very well with the townspeople. Now we're out of Flanders, we've lost touch with the Flems - whom I believe to be pro-German in sentiment and action. Our march this morning was quite Arcadian - Woods, hills, gullies, real poetical brooks, meadows - poppies, green grass, crops of ripening wheat, daisies, red clover &c, growing wild in the fields - made our route very beautiful.  No mud here like we had in Flanders - nor are there the many ditches (-a la Millicent drains a la Flanders) for the land is drained naturally. This part of France - (not Flanders) - is a very beautiful country and Sir Thomas More had no need to go to America for his basis of Utopia. for this country would have amply sufficed. Goldsmith's "Traveller" describes it well - in fact it is real poetry just to travel through it. I used to think the "babbling brook", "sweet smelling primroses" "meadows pied with daisies &" all poetic "tosh" but my word we saw it in reality here & it was fine.
