
Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Location: Somewhere in France  Date: 30 July 1916
Nationality: Australian

Text:

  Before next Sunday I think we'll be in IT - for we  have been moving up steadily the last three days - and  are now close to the immediate "Fire Zone". We are at  present just a mile or two in rear of the position from  which our parent (10th) launched out - and according  to time arrangements - we should be well in too - in  about 3 days time.  Many old friends have gone already. Horper (killed)  Hillier & McLaren (old A.H.S. boys) also - while Giles is  bowled over "shell shock" after 36 hours shelling of an  advanced position he was holding - McCann got a  crack in the head - Inglis lower part of face knocked  crooked - while Hubbe - (old 79th) is fine - so you can  see the old Batt got severely pasted in carrying out  the work they were asked to do.  The remnants of our old Batt assisted 8 huge  counter attacks from the Prussian Guard - & knocked the  guts out of them. I saw some of my old boys. They  reckon they had the time of their lives - Fight - &  bombs! no one could reckon how many he'd thrown.  The old Bde. will get some decorations - three have  been recommended for very high ones - (Beames the  Norwood footballer is one) - while Shaw did great work  and is now almost a physical wreck through overstrain. 

48



Melville cleaned 400 Yds of Hun trenches with a bomb team,  & is still 'beserk' - he is said to be recommended for a V.C.  Campbell (cricketer) and Blackburn also did great work  Hamilton was observed kicking Huns out of a 'dugout'  Jack was 'mad' - and his language was lurid, when  he got in the 'pozzy' he booted out 5 Fritzes in quick time.  One of my platoon Huon has also been recommended  for a decoration - for carrying up bombs.  My old C Co. did great work - started with 5 off. 190 men  and came out with 2 & 90 respectively. Many of my  old rfts. have fought their last battle. Hurrell,  Keen, Mayfield, Eldridge, Shipley have all done their  job - Lynch is still going strong.  My boys have great confidence in themselves, & so have I  From what I can gather from the old Brigade - I have  been right in what I have taught them, as I emphasised  bomb-throwing, bayonet fighting, trench rushing, passing  of messages, & conservation of supplies, so if my boys fail  it won't be through want of proper instruction  Weir, Redburg, Hamilton, Coombe (lieut now) and Kinnick  came through O.K., & now the old Brigade is busy  retraining & refitting. Our turn is next & I am confident  we will do as well as the 10th did, & that I will pull  through O.K. It is time a little luck (MC &c) came  my way, but I don't care a damn for - 


Aug 3rd 1916 

 (next letter)  July 30th - 1916 
50 