Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Location: France
Date: 1 March 1917
Nationality: Australian

Text:    Dear Father and Mother,  Just our luck - we are   missing all the interesting work in front. I told you  in my previous letter we were going up - we have  been & 'gone'. Whilst we were in we were to have had  a 'hop over' - but sudden plans in the rear stopped  it at the last moment. Then we were relieved, &now   we are back in rear. The very next night Fritz  evacuated three or four lines in front of our position,  it was our bad luck to be going rearwards, whilst  the relieving battn was pushing forward.  Fritz has now gone further back - Le Baque  & Ligny which were in front of position, are  now in our hands. Fritz is said to have strong  lines at &through Thilloy - so there’ll be something  doing there next. If we get Fritz away from there  he may have to fall back as far as Cambrai - but  somehow I think he's gone back as far as he intends.  Things were very interesting up there for a day  or two - for open warfare was nearly put into being  once again. Somehow I think that the Spring  will find us fighting new open tactics again.  Our stunt was a very stiff one, &probably  would have cost us 75% to take &hold - & would  have been a very brilliant piece of work. 
Perhaps its just as well it didn't come off as the  boys were very "weary" after two months hard  work in the mud, slush &snow of the front areas.  Now we're in the rear I'm battling for Special leave  to get to England to meet George - but these new   movements in front have put the acid on all leave   absolutely - I might just as well apply to meet  you in Australia. I've sent in to Corps H Quarters  so I may have a chance after all.  It's bad luck to finally miss it after refusing  it for the last two months.  We are very busy re-fitting &re-organising  & don't expect to be here long. I will write again  in a day or two.  No mail has come from you for some time  but one is rumoured to be near at hand so I will  get my letters then.  I will close now with very, very much love to  you all, &best of all good wishes frrom  Your loving son,  Rollo. 