Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury

Location: Gallipoli Peninsular

Date: 20 June 1915
Nationality: Australian  Last mail week overdue  - but as we have been notified portion has been destroyed by fire we don't feel too happy about it - & I suppose it'll be for ever overdue. I met another Millicent chap - (used to be at Millicent) named Williams - used to have Gurr's job - now with A Com. in 9th L.H.  By the way the L.H. are all here. dismounted - horses left in Egypt. We go out "visiting" here & also have "reception" days. Capt. Shaw & I get on well together & I have met nearly all the L.H. officers (as well as Inf) who left S.A. Lance Lewis told me the latest of Frank White -  whom he'd heard was very seriously ill.  Also met Sid Rowell. & several others, including A.H.S. boys.  It is nice to have Henwood (A.H.S.) as a brother officer in 10th - but of course it doesn't make up for the loss of Munro. Promotions are going to be slow in the 10th- for they were last made, just before I arrived, & we will have to go through heavy casualties before more chances arrive. Holmes has a bit of shrapnel in the stomach & is in Hospital with a mere fighting chance.  He had been doing well - & chances are improving. Jacko is tuning up considerably with his artillery. which was reported to us as "short of ammun." - but to judge from the way they keep firing they have far more than we have to my fancy. We are supposed to be awaiting the Greeks - but I am afraid we'll get very little help from them- as they are very half-hearted. There is truth in reports of spies in 1st Contingent for I've seen official reports of 2 "justifiable homicides" & a N.Z.. Sergeant was caught signalling to Jacko & shot.
Gallipoli was described by one Germ. general as being the hardest etrat nut in the world - so our G.O.C. has almost used the same words. Anyhow until we get Achet Baba we can't advance an inch - so we're ignorant of what is in front of us.  From what we can see, when we go forward for a general advance we will get 'hell'.  The Turks & Germans are great -  marvellous as regards engineering and  concealment of guns.  I will be able to tell you a few astounding facts later - but not now. I don't know how long we are to be in Trenches - but I'm certain it's for a few weeks yet. I was 'officer of watch' in trenches the other day, & a party of strange officers came through.  Their badges showed they were Staff - but no rank badges were worn.  Two of them turned out to be Birdwood & Walker  & I treated them as ordinary Staff visitors looking at our trenches - but nothing eventuated A Corp. in our Co. knows Spender & was at Htn for a while - name's Hunter -decent chap my Men are the 'Blind 50' in Camp or Barracks but they're grand soldiers in the trenches.  How 
they will shape in an advance I don't know. Colonel Weir too is wondering - for if we do get forward we get into a land of plenty of wine - that is their weakness.  or was at 'Menai'. Anyhow they understand it's no light thing to come up for simple crimes on Act. Serv. & there will be no leniency from me - if any funny business starts. My platoon has a history - & according to history & reports on conduct sheets they "made history" in Cairo - but so far I've had no trouble with them - but when we return to civilised quarters I expect to  have a few ructions.  Active Serv discipline is very diff to Camp or Barracks - and all crimes committed are punishable by death. My Reinf. have not yet come but are due.  21st June Just recd. 2nd mail - 21.6.1915  [*23.6.15*]         Have just had orders to take out 150 men to dig a new trench tonight on our right flank  23rd June 23.6.1915 Too tired to write yesterday. 11th (W.A)) put 200 men digging - while 50 of 10th dug Com. trench [*First STUNT.*] from old to new one. Remaining 50 I had to take out to front to cover diggers.  With 250 men on pick & shovel nouse was heard by T.
Rollo.