 Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Location: Serapeum Date: 5 April 1916
Nationality: Australian

Text:  This letter holds our regimental crest and when we get more money will be our badge as well - what do you think of it. I genuinely think it is too squat - and more of our flag should be shown However my vote was only 1 among the 20 who adopted it. I got a fine parcel from you yesterday - tip top - and all arrived in prime condition Bovril I will keep with the quinine. Boracic Acid &c until reqd. - the sox I am using likewise the camphor. The malted milk came in fine time and I have used it already. Major Herbert - (my best friend) has been off color two days afr he went to bed & for those days he has been using that milk - but it as been no avail - the M.O. has just ordered him to the Hospital with enteric  – temp 103o. Poor Herbert - he is one of the finest officers that ever breathed, (I wish was only equal to his shadow) and his luck his been pretty miserable. There is a chance of it being only "gastric floo" but the doc. thinks it means a trip to Aussie instead of France in any case- & as his majority has not yet been confirmed he may have to revert to captain again. By the way my captaincy has been recommended so now I am "pukka". Thank you for that parcel - it was fine in this desolate region for once more we're in Asia- & in a most miserable hole E of the Canal.
Herbert & I had not taken any leave for over 2 mns we were letting it accumulate & meant to explore Egypt together - but now my luck is out - as no-one could replace Herbert as a comrade. We intended to go up the Nile to Luxor - a most interesting & expensive trip- but this jaunt will have to drop now. Perhaps I will get to Cairo for a day or two - but I think I will let my leave grow till I get to -------- when I'll get a week off & cross over to see Boltons. unless as I expect we're given a big job as soon as we get there. It is nearly 5 months since we smelt powder - & its about time we started the second round. We got some 'wasters' who were left behind by the other battalion - & these started to play the goat - but we hit back quick - The Aust. govt. is being saved the bother of paying about ₤200 to 15 men - (all in 1 day) & this excludes imprisonment & hard labor - so this "nimble crowd" found us a hard hearted & "hit hard & often" set of officers in this Battn. We're not a S. School so we are kicking out all the bad eggs - as we don't mean to be disgraced in France - so about a boat load [[unit?]]  be sent back - discip., unfit, & CD. cases Just about a year since I left Millicent last & it is a year. since we were together in Adelaide. Harry mentions in a letter he's sorry he won't see me at Easter - but I hope it will be my luck to have him meet me at the Station someday.
Rollo.


Badge of 50th
