Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Location: Serapeum
Date: 17 April 1916
Nationality: Australian

Text: 
 I had a day in Cairo last week end - only had a short notice so I jumped at my last chance. Visited the zoo & the Barrage - took some snaps which I hope develop O.K. I motored to the Barrage with Rumball, Gove & Hogarth - & the trip of 30 mls only cost me 10/- The black dust of the earth road to the Delta was rather trying - but the B. made up for the discomfort. There's a fine Bot. Garden attached to the Barrage - & with good soil, plenty of water, & the cheap Gippo labor - have produced gardens which run ours very closely as regards being picturesque -  The building of the B. is ornamental as well as useful - at either end & the centre of the wall - they represent a castle wall - so that the B. itself looks like the boundary wall of a big castle. The water runs through huge sluices, & there are all kinds of matic walks. fancy birds, fairy bridges, &c in the gardens.
Barrage & Zoo.  I spent two most delightful hours here, & hope my snaps develop O.K. for they show some fine, picturesque scenes. We went back to Cairo - & after lunch put in 3 hours at the Ghiza Zoo. I nearly went mad with the fine gardens, rustic scenes, shrubs, lawns &c - it seamed so like home again. except the niggers rather spoiled the effect. I took about 30 snaps - and included animals too - as the collection of animals & birds is very good. I hope my shots at the giraffes, rhinoceros, &c are O.K. as they are new animals to me - the Gnu were failures as they kept in the shade. - & wouldn't get out in a decent light. I very reluctantly left the Zoo to catch the train back here - but I spent one of the pleasantest days of my life, so altho extremely tired I was well contented. The train journey too was delightful. First a fine typical Egyptian sunset - then moonrise - (nearly full) - & both were exactly like one reads about or sees pictured - but rarely personally experiences. The palms, mosques, various villages were thrown up against a mass of blazing gold to the W, & their various colors everywhere - well it was a most awe-inspiring sunset. - The moon had a softer effect it didn't seem so brazen - but to see the palms, minarets silhouetted against it - well it was a most peaceful effect. I arrived back at 11.30 p.m. & you can guess I slept O.K. as I rose at 3.30 a.m. to catch the train- but was a great trip - & I have now been most of the sights of Egypt - & especially the wonderful sunset effects.
I had not understood the expression "the enchantment of Egypt" before - until that train trip- but I do now - & if I get through our 'stunt' I mean to revisit Egypt. If the 'nigs' could only be transferred it could be a Paradise - instead of the Inferno as in most parts. We are still out in this sun-dried, wind-swept, & most miserable hole, guarding the Canal. How we all curse drill & sun, dust & wind, in fact the daytime is as unwelcome as bully beef & dog biscuit - (& only an Anzac of July & Aug 15 will realise what that meant) but the nights are beautiful. The moon is nearly full, the wind drops at night, & we welcome night almost as much as Aust. mails which lately are not too regular. To get back to military news; you can realise our feelings when we read of the 10th marching through Paris, (1st Divvy) France seemingly went mad over our boys who are billetted now about 10 miles behind the Front. Apparently they will be in action before us. One feels a bet mserable to read about ones old regiment, & not to be with it - (Weir is back O.C. again) but our turn will come directly - though it seems a long way off. A big mistake is being made keeping us here too long for we are over-trained, & we have the d-'s own job to keep our men from going to the pack through staleness. It is so monotonous here - that we all long for orders to get away to the Firing line - as Trench work is never dull there 
The 9th L.H. sent a squadron inland from our old pozzy (Habeita) & they got to work on a small Jacko outpost, - took about 30 prisoners, - mopped up the whole garrison except 2. I only wish we had some such stunt it would brighten our men up wonderfully Verdun push looks a big stunt - and both sides are getting pretty hard hit. France admits she lost 17000 prisoners alone - & no doubt the Huns were 'all out' too - as they seem to have drawn troops from all parts. and they've been hit to leg badly too. It seems strange the British had to take over a big section of the French front about 3 weeks ago - but our tum will come next. & altho' many of us expect "to stop one" it will be worth it - if we can give the 'push' which will crumple up Fritz properly. I saw Sid Lehmann the other evening he's quite a nice, straight chap again, & doing well. Jack McLaughlin was here last night - I mixed him up with Frank - but we know one another now - & had a fine, long chat My news is not much - we expect an Aust. mail tomorrow, & will write replies at once. I hope you are all as well as I am, & close with good wishes & much love from Rollo