
Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury

Date: 20 May 1915

Location: Suez Egypt
Nationality: Australian


Text: 
Arrival Suez Egypt.
Suez 10. a.m. 20. 5. 15  Disembark today for Cairo.  Well we have landed, & entrained to Cairo from Suez &  as soon as possible we will be sent to the front. Egypt is  not a bad place as regards climate, the heat does not  affect me - but the glare of the sand does.  This letter will be a sad one in many ways - Gordon  Munro has gone - he was in action only a few minutes.  I dug up a wounded 12th man (100 wounded here) & he  was alongside Gordon when it happened. I daresay  you know the account of the Aussie's landing - a  brilliant feat. - Well - Munro jumped out of the bows  of his boat followed by his platoon, up to armpits  in the sea, & under machine gun-fire from sandhills,  150 or less yds away, got ashore safely with some men.  The Tassies were ordered to fix bayonets & charge these  machine guns - by short, sharp rushes, & when about  70 yds. away charged.  Munro led this charge with  no bayonet or rifle - merely his revolver - & when a  few yards from the enemy - called to his men-  "Keep together, & give the beggars a go" - & then  immediately fell - shot in the stomach.  I felt miserable all day yesterday on account of  this news - Poor old Gordon - he & I had been close  comrades since we first met at A.H.S. 1910- & I had  been so looking forward to joining with him again.

Arrival Egypt

Gordon Giles, Alec Fraser - (see Pyr. photo - (one with the helmet) Talbot Smith & many others are reported to have gone  under - & almost every 10th officer was wounded.  The 10th got it very hot, being the second battn to land, - the 9th  (Queenslanders) being first of all, & getting much cut up. about 75%  of both batts. reported killed or wounded.  Every S.A. officer in  12th was killed or wounded - Kayser had half an ear shot off.  Jorgensen wounded - Tom Holland got a scalp wound which will  part his hair for ever.  He has two brothers with us - fine lads.  He has rejoined his unit.  Birt was slightly wounded too, & we  hear since he has been done for.  The 9th had 39 men at the close of 25.4.15 - & all reinforcements are up.  The 10th were badly hit, & have already drawn on 4th Reinforcemts.  altho' Ireland & Moule have not yet gone.  I hope they are not  being kept to take our lot - we want to stick to our own men.  Our chaps after being teetotallers for over a month, could not all  remain straight when we got on land - 16 were A.W.L. this  morning - but all except two or three have turned up.  Yesterday - (Sat. ½ holiday) Ireland took Hancock & me for  sightseeing.  We went to the Citadel, & visited 8 mosques.  The  Citadel is a fine old place & so are the mosques - but I was  very tired before we finished.  The Mosques are something to  talk about - it would be useless trying to write about them.  It was a pleasure to meet Ireland & Moule in this  strange land - you can't realise what it meant to us.  We'd had a fairly miserable time on the boat - the Vic. officers,  with one or two exceptions, were pups - & it was good to see  a fresh 'old' face - such as Ireland's & Moule's.  I will now describe our disembarkation. We thought we'd  go to Pt. Said for orders but we were stopped at Suez, (19th)  & notified to land at once, but for some reason remained on board.  I was officer of the guard & had to remain up all night, to see  specially that no-one 'hopped it'.
Rollo