
Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Date: 1 May 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text: 


Saturday May 1st 1915.  Still fine weather - but atmosphere getting  very clammy & unpleasant, Passed near  Cocos Island today - saw several  birds - natives of this group - a little  heavier built than seagulls.  Several sports in our unit. Boxing  - bayonet fighting & singlesticks all have  their enthusiasts, Corp. Whitehead gave a  smart display of singlesticks when he won  his bout in last nights competition.  Men were paid today.   Sunday May 2nd, 1915.  Weather stifling - sea comparatively smooth.  Occasional tropical showers do not improve matters  Fair attendances at voluntary church parades.  Saw several flying fish. Folks on board  making preparation for receiving Father Neptune  as we cross the line tomorrow night.  Ceremony to be at 2.30 p.m Tuesday.  Bad news this evening. Pte P Martin had  a purse containing £7 odd stolen from his jacket  this evening. It was also reported that minor  sums have previously been missed at this  same mess table at various times - also  articles of clothing and an automatic pistol.  Hancock immediately ordered a search - but  it was unsuccessful - but a very nasty   taste has been left in our mouths  as a result of this evenings revelations.  This petty larceny has to be stopped.  God help the man when he is caught.

Monday May 3rd, 1915.  Yesterday's business left its st marks - further  reports Hendry lost 5/-, Weaver an automatic  pistol - several minor articles of clothing - caps  hats - singlets, towels, even boots.  Searched kit bags of over 50 men - no incriminating  evidence found. 10th at present apparently not  guilty.  Preparations in hand for crossing the line   tomorrow.   Tuesday May 4th, 1915. No further developments re the pilfering.  Day very hot - sea extraordinarily calm.  Father Neptune ceremony in the afternoon. Along with  Perkins - Whitlam - Luscombe - Johnson & Hancock went  through the ceremony - Bosun made a good old  Neptune - Richardson a good quack. Assisted  to put the immaculate Dwyer through. GingerTait  renigged. The affair passed off excellently well.  Boxing competition continues in the evening. The 10th  well to the foe. Pte Kellett - broke his thumb in  round 2 - but finally lost the match by a few  points. Pte Smith N.R - in the heavyweight won  easily. Good sport & lads behaved most excellently   well.  Crossed the line at 9 p.m still exceedingly calm.   Wednesday, May 5th 1915  As yesterday - sea very calm.  Excellent concert given in the evening by the  11th - very good "esprit de corps" in the 11th.  The 11th are probably our most serious rivals.

Thursday, May 6th 1915.  In early morning ran into a Sou - West [?]  high wind - heavy sea - but as it was  end on - did not feel it much. Passed  a boat - "Lady Mackallar" - rolling very much.  A certain amount of sickness among the men - but  most of the 10th very fit  Coast of Ceylon, hove in sight at 7 a.m - a fine lighthouse  on a projecting salient. Ran up coast (about  6 miles distant) Plenty of rain about. Coast very  mountainous - more than hilly. Even through  the haze - could make out four ranges - varying  from olive green to dark purple. Very pretty coast  indeed would like to have seen it in fine  weather. Passed a large coastal town on the  run up. Owing to weather did not arrive off Colombo  till 9 p.m. Had to remain outside all night. Two  fine searchlights guard this port nightly.  As at Fremantle - officers once more put on  Guard or rather sentry go.   Friday May 7th 1915.  At daybreak were boarded by the pilot - and taken  into the harbour. Breakwater at Colombo a very fine  structure - 7 yards wide solid concrete, Two gaps-  one for exits - other for entrances. Catamarans  passed us on weigh way out for the days fishing,  Remarkably calm in the harbour after being out  in the Sou- Wester.  As soon as we were tied up to our buoy 