Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury

Location: Anzac Cove West Mudros Lemnos

Date: 24 November 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:

Good by to Anzac Cove West Mudros Lemnos 24.11.1915  I hope you recd. my mail posted 14 11 - as there are rumors that it was sunk in a storm I put a lot of time into a Christmas Card for you all - & also wrote my birthday letter (11th ) as well as letters to Uncle & friends. So I do hope that mail has not gone. She also carried many monetary gifts from the 'boys' to the loved ones in "Aussie" - as I knew as censor. Not only did that storm fix up the outgoing mail but some coming in also went down - & 2 bags of mail for 10th went astray. Some stuff was sent to 10th Naval Brig. by mistake & reached us eventually. - I got yours Oct 3rd & papers - but it seems as tho' parcels had gone. An additional mail reached us on 14th so I recd your cablegram - parcels of goodies &c. from Wumps & yourselves - The cap I wear constantly at night - and I can tell you all your gifts were appreciated very much indeed. The mitts & cap were a 'godsend' - for the week after was a very hard & bitter one - for the 10th particularly The relief of the 3rd Brigade started on the 14th when two batts. were sent away to Mudros. Next day we were out of the line - but were not able to embark owing to the great storm. We were in open bivouac on the side of a bare hill for 4 or 5 days of fearfully rough & cold weather. The first night we were all wet through & as for mud - we were nearly buried in it. Cold! 

[*Last days on Gallipoli*]
Cold! Well whoever told you Gallipoli had a mild climate like Millicent was a liar - He ought to come here & try it for himself, I should not care to go through the same again for £1000. Mind you it was open bivouac - no dugouts or shelter - absolutely under sky, clouds, wind &c. alone. Next day water supply broke down - & no stores could be landed on account of rough weather - so all the food we had was a very small issue of beef & bread once a day. Blankets & greatcoats for two days were mudsodden &wet and I can tell you things were very bad indeed. When we embarked on the transport the weather again became too rough to land us - & as there were no extra stores for such an emergency once more we had "fast" days We only landed yesterday (23rd) & had a 4 mile tramp to this camp. Thank heavens we had tents to go into - good warm tents, and with a huge hot dinner we were soon O.K. again. But it was a very rough experience the very worst since the Landing - & I don't want any more similar. Those last 6 days put about 50 of ours into Hospital - & other batts. suffered too. Well we are relieved - but if Col. Weir could see the battn. he would weep. Only 5 of the original officers left - & only 75 men - the rest are reinforcements  We must have looked a rag-tag lot as we struggled to this rest camp. Here we found 3 complete reinforcements waiting for us, & about 50 of our sick or wounded now convalescent. but the addition of these will by no means make us up to full battalion strength.
I can tell you we are fit only for a good long rest - - there are only a few who stuck it longer than I I commenced May 26th & feel proud of myself. You can't imagine how I felt when I 'fell in' my old No. 9 Platoon this morning - 1/5 of the men were utter strangers - (new reinfctmts) - and as I had grown with the battalion & its old personnel - it was hard to notice how many of the old faces had gone. Only 7 are left of those I took over - many of course are away sick or wounded - but a lot have gone for ever. Now is the time we feel what war is. Reaction is setting in - & I can notice several "old hands" cracking up We rest the men as much as possible - but of course give a fair amount of exercise. Food! well fresh meat, new bread daily; fruit, condensed milk, tea &c, show the boys are doing well - and a daily issue of rum with a pint of beer as well will soon set us up again - When we return to the firing line we will be re-charged with energy, & Jacko will find the 2nd edition of the 10th much more 'awful' than he found us about Oct. One of my boys 'Spooner' - had gone sick from Anzac to Egypt - & got on the burst there. He put an end to himself - & we are all very sad over it. We took the Company out for a walk today - the country is not so hilly as Imbros - & as it is autumn. it cannot be compared with Imbros in summer.
Mudros has a large Harbor - but it would not do to say anything about its contents – In the days of Troy, the natives say they had 2500 boats in the harbor for that expedition – well we haven't so many - but quite a lot. A retired Greek merchant told me that yarn about the Grk. fleet - he made his pile in Cairo - & has promised me some Greek stamps in exchange for Aussie ones. The inhabitants of this island have changed their vocations since war began at this end - men who were 'husbandmen' are now smugglers.  Pretend to sell chocolate, almonds &c. to the boys, but in their baskets under their goods they hide a vile "Cognac" which is nothing more than scented meth. spirits. Anyhow any Dago I catch with the stuff I'll 'lay out' - & these d - d. Dagoes are nothing but robbers & spies  Tinned fruit, milk &c. cost more than at Anzac - & I would dearly love to shoot some of these birds who rook the boys right & left. We regard them as worse enemies to us than the Turks, & I believe every other Greek here would fight against us if it came to a fair test. However our time will come some day, & things will move this way if we should declare war on Greece. I met Gurr, (in 12th) & Batt - and MLaughlin is about somewhere - but I've not seen him yet.
By the way I hope you don't think I'm a huge smoker - I only have a pipe after tea - & occasionally a cigarette - I had to take it up as the stench at "Lone Pine" was appalling I have been visiting other arms lately, & have made a friend of Lieut Kenst a Vic. officer of 2nd Co. Field Engineers. He is a decent chap - & with Charlie Hooper (one of our 6th Rfts) we are just going for a sail round the Harbor. The boat is such a heavy tub we call her Shamrock Nth. I also visited the Artillery frequently & feel like going in for that branch if I come through O.K. What I don't know about Artillery would fill many books. Lieut. Toomey of Sydney has given me some very interesting & useful details. I will write again next week - & will send you a New Years Day mail in place of the Xmas one of mine which probably has gone. Harry's drawings are very interesting - I have now a fine nucleus for an Anzac Art Gallery. Well - good luck to you all - much love, & be in as good health as I am now. Excuse scribble - fingers cold. Your loving Rollo. 