
Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Date: 4 November 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:
 Just had yours of Sept 19 & 20 - & am very  surprised you had no news of Suvla Bay.  The English papers were very full of it - &  gave fine accounts of the business - but  failed to explain the cause of the 'hold up'  or to mention what troops were responsible.  I am not sure but I believe something big  is on hand here - but it will be the toughest  job we've tackled this end - In front of us are  rows & rows of trenches. stronger than Vandeleur  has seen in Flanders. V is a Br. general, & came  to us the other day, told us our lines were the 
best he'd seen, & he's been all along the Allied  Front too in France & Belgium. These trenches  were commenced right back in June when  I had charge of the covering party - so I feel  a bit proud of being connected with them.  We go on running & sniping - blowing up  Turks &c - & all hands go in for 'Stunts' of  some kind or other - new bomb throwers,  periscopic telegraphic sighted rifles, &c -  but on ahead we see rows of trenches now  right back to Gun Hill - where we would  have gone if K of Ks Pommies had only  held on to Hill 971 when it was left to  them. We are encouraging the men to  make 'cave dug-outs' & soon will be regular  troglodites - but we must have somewhere  to go for shelter against snow & new shells.  Shelling isn't always useful. If our shells  do no more damage than Jacko's we are  wasting ammunition. - Take 'Loos' for  example - 14 days shelling - & about 20 shells  to every sq. yard - & every inch searched - yet  when the Br advanced the Huns manned the  trenches, & inflicted great damage. Trenches can
only be taken by flank attacks or surprise. 
Surprise attacks rarely eventuate, & the results  very doubtful - for as we found at Quinn's  trenches we took at night were untenable  in daytime because of enfilade fire.  Of course there are exceptions - like Leane's  trench in Tasmania Post - taken Aug 1st  and held in spite of heavy losses by 11th  We only hope we'll have a 'dinkum go'  before winter sets in - as we came to 'win'.  We have various types of catapults for  slinging bombs - & a huge store of the latter  so we make much use of them to harass Jacko  Jacko has a big supply too - but I think we  more than hold our own.  A Turk was evidently wounded the other  night - & let out some heart rending yelps -  but our chaps roared & laughed at the poor  devil. Another time a Hun officer evidently  lost his temper - & at midnight aroused us all  by yelling at & belabouring some unhappy Jacko  who howled & yowled plentifully. All was very  quiet on our side - but one of our sentries sang  out - " Shut up that blinketty blank row - you  blanketty blinking German cow or I'll give you  a Clift under the blooming - ear" That broke  us up - & we chivvied that Bosch for the next half  hour - and I guess if he knew Aust. he felt mad. Rollo