
Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Location: Belgium
Date: 23 October 1916
Nationality: Australian

Text:
 Moving, moving - moving  Always bally moving  From one week's end until the next  We're moving all the time  2nd Scrapping, scrapping, scrapping &c  3rd Shelling  4th Charging  5 Digging  6 Marching  7 Moving & then ad lib to nth power  Dear Father & Mother,-  The above ‘hymn’ describes our general  movements - but the another verse or two is needed to describe the  weather & climate. Drizzling - drizzling, &c.- so you can  guess Belgium is not unlike the S.E. in winter. Mud &  slush everywhere - cold all day & night- whilst the rain is  practically ceaseless. However we manage to live, & will continue  to carry on O.K. The men are all supplied with waders whilst  in the front areas, - plenty of dubbing for boots , whale oil in  quantities to grease the feet & keep out the wet, & thick clothes  along with thick gloves & leather over-gloves - so we get on O.K.  An extra blanket is also issued to each man, so we're being  well looked after. Rations most excellent & plentiful, so we  get on fine. We put in a fortnight in the front line - only  4 light casualties in the whole Bn (none in C. Co) - now  we are on our way to a very wet & hot corner in a [[?nigh]]  county, & the Circus is on the move again

I am writing this in a weatherboard hut built by the Kanuk  and it is not water-tight by any means. I have to sit on my  valise in the driest corner - & dodge the drippings from the ceiling  We are only here for a few days, & probably will have far better  quarters in a short time  This Contonment is the filthiest I've yet seen, and strange  to say we relieved the 50th - or Dirty Half Hundredth. They  do not belie their name, in fact our C O. told their C.O. a few straight facts about what they could learn from us  Strange to say when we first started - our chief anxiety  was - how do we - or how will our boys compare with the  English regular. Now we wonder what their strong points  are - Anyhow I sincerely hope we never take over any  other positions vacated by them, & that we only have Aussies  on our flanks in a stunt. Of course some regts are A.1.  Our Referendum Vote has just finished & strange to say  I believe a fair number voted NO. - but I don't think we'd  many in our Battn I was R.O. for our Company.  If Australia Votes NO I don't intend to be an Australian - for it won't be worth calling a Nation then. I trust  the vote will be YES - for God knows, & so do all the officers  that we need Refts. very badly - the whole A.I.F is  being starved for want of new blood. If Billy Hughes  had any guts he should have said 'Conscription' straight  out. - He's a funk for he knows our position & he's far  worse then Yes No Reid - may be a splendid theorists he's a d - d bad practical statesman. 
Billy tells us "to go in turn"- but he acts differently in Australia  - his ideas may be splendid - but he won't put them into practice.  This war is going to last some time yet - and it is great pity  we could not settle this business before winter came - for now  the Hunnish Hydra will grow more heads by next Spring.  That stunt of Falkenstein's in Romania means that the  Huns hold the trump card now on all fronts - and it was  a pity Romania came in - for she is isolated from Britain,  has mostly Hun guns - (except a few French heavies ) & no  Krupp ammunition - so they'll be mere cannon fodder.  I hope the Russians will be able to stop the rot that has  set in in S.E & Central Romania.  I dare say the Huns will have some Anti-tanks & other  antidotes to our Push tactics before the Spring returns.  Ken Mc was telling me about George's death. Poor  old George - I was sorry to read about him. Ken wishes to  be remembered to you all. - Next time we're out for a Rest  I must try & get him out of the Orderly Room - to deal with  the men on parade &c - I think he'd make a fine officer.  - but at present he's out of touch with outside mil. work  his branch is adminis. & promotion is very slow there.  Merv. M came an inglorious end in Egypt - his  uncle was present when something was said to me once  about "frills &c of an officer" - well the nephew has  put a full stop to any chance of his military career.  Les Johns is still O.K. & Sid Lehman is away sick. (Tonsilitis)  but will be back soon. 
Milt. Stanway has recovered - but Coghill was short of men - that men who belonged to various other Bgds. have been hustled from the bases to reinforce him - & Stanway has gone to him.  This shows the need for Conscriptn. for nothing spoils men more than to take them from a 'fighting unit' (of which they are intensely proud) - to transfer them to one with a poor name  This will spoil the A.I.F. in time - for we'll become like some of the Pommy Regts - having a great name, but lacking the pride & spirit to act up to that name. A 10th man considers it a disgrace to be sent to the 27th or 32nd - (the "dinkums" - & "hyper super dinks") or the 43rd "if nots why nots" - (Census cards). Of course the 50th is a twin of the 10th - so we rank as equals - but just imagine a 50th or 10th in the 43rd or 32nd. Our men want a real relief - at present they are getting worn out & stale. No more news now - hope you are all as well as I am - & best of love & all good wishes to you all from Rollo. That Wattle-blossom was a spendid reminder of sunny Australia - & is now suspended from the ceiling of my "Happy Home."