
Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury

Location: Anzac Cove Egypt

Date: 23 September 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text: 

 (Letter to Harry - dealing with fearsome pics of what Jocko should get. Descr. of fake attack on Turks Guy Fawkes night. - Colored lights at end of trenches - all rifles fired once Jocko went mad - fired furiously for nearly an hour while Aussie sat tight & laughed)

I'm still O.C. of A. Co. I have lots of work. Poor Rumball will probably be fixed for life with lumbago & rheum as he kept on too long. I reckon anyone who has the luck to come through this stunt O.K will bear the effects for life in rheumaticky shoulders & short temper - and a chap gets no extra thanks for staying on when he ought to be in Hosp. Shaw has given me this job over the heads of two or three of my seniors - who are probably hurt about it - but anyhow I've done more work than they have by going out with wiring parties to, whilst they directed operations from the trenches. I don't like the job as I am such a nipper still - the responsibility is pretty big - and it also has taken me away from the men who knew me thoroughly. Anyhow no officer is being appointed to my old No 9 Platoon - so I will be able to go back to them. Two parcels came lately both from Australia Berna's from you contained socks, hankies, etc . Don't send too much clothing etc. at one time as our accom is very limited. The things were very welcome especially the camphor - which is the best antidote to Vermin I've yet met. The 'chats' don't worry me much - & at present the camphor seems to have worked them out of a job with me. The other parcel was from Millicent & camphor pills etc. will
come in tip top - the Eucal. oil especially. There was a grease splodge over the pad where someone's cake had been squashed on the parcel. - The parcel came to me as a cakey brown mass of cardboard & string but inside everything was alright Christophers is here now with the rest after the next reinf. for Munros old battn. I have only seen him two or three times - He seems a bit timid but then of course this is all new - as so far he has not seen a Turk - thus not been in a scrap yet - The first scrap will wear this off although he says he's already "full up of Anzac" Had a big job yesterday. Had a plan out - traverse, & contour a certain areas as the winter quarters for a large body of men. Had to plan out 1. Where the men could be placed in certain stipulated formation 2. Type of most economical timbering for shelter 3. Safest kind of Shelter 4. Best weatherproof idea I daresay my plan will be first 'cut to blazes by Bat H.Q . - then annihilated by the Brigade H.Q. - chewed up by Divisional Brass Hats - & then probably a whole lot of useless material will be sent to me to erect some flimsy structures according to some pommies' plan - whose ideas may be altogether wrong.

Anyhow I hope I'm not here in Com. of A Co when the building operations are on. The job really requires a complete Military education but I've got through the work somehow & sent it in - & am now awaiting results - much the same as we'd await results of Varsity Exams. Some day I must write a full account of the operations here - so that you may see the many huge blunders that have been made here Still we keep cheerful & gaily joke & whistle - so that when we do get relief we wont be unduly excited by the fact we are leaving this portion of Europe. This show was taken up altogether too faint heartedly. It was to have been a naval oper. supported the an army - Now it is a MILITARY OPERATION rendered necessary by blunders of the Admiralty - & very weakly supported too. The person concerned in this colossal blunder should get DEATH as his reward at end of war. I hope to be able to give full details of a few crimes 1. Lone Pine Action 2. 971 Hill Action 9.8.15 & one or two others that were worse than blunders but just now I must keep mum. Anyhow if we'd had decent support & good tactics we'd have been through this job long ago. Good wishes to. Seen Edwards & Pranerham a few times.
Rollo.


