Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury

Location: Gaba Tepe
 
Date: 13 June 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:   Hurrah. mail yesterday.  I got Bulletin, Observer, Chronicle - S.E. Times & Leader - but no letters - so as I didn't want to look out of it I pulled out your letter of April 20th & read it through twice. It was a pleasure to get the newspapers - but we have not taken Maidos nor have the French captured 8000 prisoners near Charnak as the papers report. Things are in such a state here that we are no further in than we were on April 25th - we haven't enough men - but when we get them - well "Imshi Turk' - but then we have their super Gibral. Acha Baba has to be settled - and as combined Mil. & Naval efforts so far have not done much - we may be here a long time yet.  Anyhow nothing can shift us from here we are so well dug in. The 3rd Bng. were the covering party in the landing and got it hottest as casualty list shows - but things are brightening up now, for many of our wounded have recovered – and returned - so we are as strong now - as at the Landing. B Cy 10th saved the situation - but only those in the know as regards true casualties will realise the cost.  An acqtnse of mine (J Weatherall) won D.C.M., & T. Smith would have got D.S.O. Brand was promoted to Lt Col. + D.S.O. & Holmes was prom. to Capt. & other recom. have been made & nothin doin yet.  I just got here in time, as promotions were being made from the ranks - but as my appt. dates from March 24th. I am senior to them. Henword A.H.S. is prom. to 2nd Lieut.
Ireland is with A.Co. but we are trying to work so that he comes over to our Co. Information? well I've said too much, but I can't refrain from adding that during the next few days there will be something doing as far as 3rd Brigade is concerned. Hoorah! - imagine a letter has just been handed to me dated May 3rd.  It was among a batch of delayed letters - has been at B.H.Q for two days - & just sent up to me by Holmes.  It is great to get news from home - & now this should come regularly with all other mails.  You are right re short stay in Egypt - but re a quick advance to Constan.  I don't think we'll ever get there - In taking this spot - Hamilton considers it was too costly - so we won't be advancing for some time yet - but of course one never knows.  Wake up Mil. re allotments. Twice we've had bread 1/- a loaf -, 5 of us in our mess - & we have a good cook who makes stews from beef, biscuits, onions, & spuds. I left Photo &c for Wumps to fix up. Cairo is a filthy hole & I was sorry to leave my men there - Bean laid the brush on a bit thick - too straight for some folks - but I'm sorry to say his remarks fit some officers too.
Colonel Weir set a fine example - but this cannot be said of one or two other battn. Regard to Casualties - they're short - for apparently attempts have been made to conceal from home-folk true casualties. Anyhow wounded list will never be fully published, as it was a staggerer - but as most of these are now back with us - it wd. only have caused anxiety and trouble. Whatever you do - don't take notice of rumors, if anything goes wrong the Def. Dept will notify you. Rumors don't count.  I know Adelaide and the cold footed folk - too well. Dickenson has come - I am glad of that as I always had faith in Dickie - Tom Williams & Co. were too keen on getting our jobs I suppose - but we'll make things hot for the 'cold-footers' when we get back.  Then Bob Alcorn - Tom Pitman & Co - where are they? Weds Possingham is L.Corp. & called this afternoon - Gib Edwards is a Corp. Poor Alf Possingham is gone - he was doing great work - I met his Col. (Eliott) at Lemnos - & he had a fine opinion of Alfie - Wumps sent along photo of group 5/10.  Recd. Harry's blood-thirsty sketches.  Send along envelopes & paper.
Rollo.