Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Nationality: Australian

Text:



The Artillery can either make or mar a "Raid's" success If the wire isn't smashed - or a thick barrage doesn't come between the first forward line of enemy trenches - then the raiding party has a very "rough spin" - & very few will get back Most of our raids have been absolutely free from casualties until the "getting home" began. - as then Fritz begins to put a barrage of machine gun &artillery between his lines & ours, - so the return party shifts like greased lightning. Much pain and detailed work occur in planning a raid - - & a few lines of description of a successful raid - means the result of many hours of careful study & planning. To see a party go out one would fancy it was some sort of "fancy dress stunt".  The men black their faces, hands & wear any old clobber - carry rifles with blackened bayonets fixed - knives, revolvers, bombs, & knobkerries - (last are entrenching tools with a bit of horseshoe fixed on for luck) & my word, Ned Kelly would turn with envy in his grave if he were only told about our ideas & "get up" You can imagine the effect on poor Hans of this mob of yelling Australian "blacks" jumping into the remnants of their trenches after 30 min. of our "hate". Poor devils - I heard they are going to crucify any Australian they catch with a 'Knobkerry" - but they'll have "first to catch him."  I saw some Fritzes on their way to our H.Q. after a good raid last night.


26



By the time they reached us they had lost many buttons - (our boys are great in curios - and it was one of the funniest sights in the world to see a ragged six footer of an Anzac - (black!) escorting an equally gigantic Fritz.  Bill Jim had a "knobkerry" & was helping Fritz along by wearing his "brass helmet" - but as B.J. was wearing a head of about size 7 - & Fritz helmet only filled a size 6 - you can imagine the picture.  Especially if you fill up the most picturesque & sanguinary Australianese which B J. used with various yelled war-cries to hurry Fritz along.  Some of our wounded came along later - some laughing, some silent, others growling & cursing generally.  My word B.J. can swear when put to it properly. I hope to take out a party before long - it might mean a M.C. or - but one must trust to luck - I don't intend to miss any opportunities, & besides "one hour of glorious fame is worth a month of ordinary war fame" I enclose 'Birthday dinner card" - of party given by Major Jacob - only 1100 yds from firing line.  Keep the "menu" for the autographs may be valuable. Well - I'll write again in a few days - Best of all good wishes - & very much love - hoping you're all as well as I am Yours Rollo.