
Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury

Location: Gaba Tepe  Date: 7 May 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:

We are very short of writing material - so send along enclosed note to Bema & George. I was only in Cairo 3 or 4 days - & left Alexandria in a tub called the 'Australind'. - a miserable 3 days on board & then dropped off at Lemnos.  From Mudros we went across to Gallipoli in tug-boats, & as a few subs. were knocking about, we were expecting to swim for it every time, but fortunately I met Father Neptune a few weeks ago - so he felt kindly to us. Anyhow we landed at Anzac Cove at 4.30 a.m. & I got my "baptism of fire".  My first sensations of the whizz of bullets, and weird sound of shells commenced at once as we were under fire all the time.  One shell landed about 10 yds. off & splashed the men in the boat.  Then when on shore I had to work like blazes to take men to 8 different battalions.  I was quite ignorant of "Sniper's Corner", "Double up Point", "Hurry up Bend" &c, & ran some heavy risks.  At one place I was greeted with a good old salvo - three shots quite close - the others were well above.  Of these three two raised the dust in the bank alongside, & the third clipped a bush a yard to my rear. - The Staff forgot to tell me that I should have waited till evening when troops only are moved, & there I was trotting around in broad daylight from 5 to 7 a.m.  However it wasn't much of a baptism, & I've been pretty right ever since. I reached the 10th & many old acquaintances at 10 a.m. & was sent right away to the trenches. These are pretty comfortable - & we are not much worried by the Turks, but frequent bursts of bullets & a few shells break the monotony. We are well dug in, & I have only seen 1 killed.
Now for a word about the country. Imagine a piece of land (the hills about Anstey's Hill will do) with the sea right up to them.  Some of these hills are as high & steep as those on either side of Water Gully road, - well now you have the type of country, our boys are working in. I can't say how they got up these hills - but they did it - at a cost scarcely reckoned up yet.  Now all over the shoreward sides are dug-outs - thousands of them - & on top, lines of trenches in all directions. This is as far as we've got. To a casual observer we will be pushed back into the sea - but if he looks closer he will see we will never be pushed back.  I spent a morning or two at Mville trenching - but I had not the slightest conception of what a trench was till I got here, & my word my eyes have been opened.  We are busy all the time – something doing every night - patrols, night attacks, wire setting, bomb expeditions &c. to keep us from developing "Ennui". Trench life consists of 12 days in & 3 days out and we are resting at present. In the trenches we sleep when we can only in snatches in one 54 hour period I got 3 short snoozes of less than 2 hours' duration. It's a case of 'Mind your head' all the time - for the scouts & snipers are far from Silenced. We get bacon for breakfast, onions for stew, & plenty of "bully" and biscuits, sometimes fresh meat, but bread so far is unknown. As luxuries we get a tin of milk or a bottle of sauce - whilst an issue is made weekly of cigarettes & tobacco weekly & an issue of rum when necessary The men are tired of waiting about, but are all merry.
The men are splendid, but their language is tough The "Jack Tars" have stopped swearing now, & hand the belt to the Aussies. - whose language they admit is far more empathic than theirs.  The R.N. officers say the Aussies' language alone was good enough to drive the Turks back - & that if the Aussies hadn't lost their wind climbing those hills they'd have blasted the Turks right out of the peninsula.  The sailors are full of all sorts of marvellous yarns of our boys' prowess - e.g. "a party of the 10th were emptied out in deep water & went right under; they soon came up to the surface (talking of course) but each man had fixed bayonets while underneath" The Aussies also tell some good ones re the Navy. "At the landing, one ship used up all her 4.7 shells - but the Johnnies not to be beaten - rammed in & fired 6" shells from 4.7 guns" However great friendship exists between Aussies & R.N. This is the last day of our Rest – the first day we all slept - the next day we slept, & today we're just beginning to feel O.K.  We've had two washes since I came here - each in the sea - with bullets dropping all round - but much we cared - the bath was just the thing. The sunsets here are lovely - & we get long twilights.  Just opposite us is "Imbros" & Samothrace has a mountain which just cuts off part of the sun when setting. Our mail is 12 days behind & I've not heard from you since April 20th - seven weeks ago.  So you can guess how I feel.
Rollo