
Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Location: Anzac Cove Egypt  Date: 5 October 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:  Yesterday I recd. letters from you, Wumps, & Harry  dated Aug. 15 & 22 - one from George 15/8. & one from  Uncle Will. who with Aunt Amy sent along WA papers  I also heard from that Clark - one of my subs. sent news  from Bob Smith (ex. orch conductor A.H.S.). had had  news that Cornish & myself had 'gone out'. Don't take any  notice of rumors tc., unless you hear from Defence Dept.  We are still going strong - & only wish we were let loose  on the lot in front of us. We are not relieved yet. Fancy  all in trenches or under constant fire since April 25th  - but if the Sultan & Kaiser will only "trot out their troops  of Turks". I think we are good enough to try them out.  'Nothing doing' just now - but we won't settle down to  winter quarters without showing 'Jacko' that we have a  strong punch or two left. The news from France  seems better - to the chagrin of the Clown Prince - & it  seems as tho' Russia has stopped Fritz from advancing.  The Dagoes have very difficult country to fight in - but  all the same they must have a big army ready to  push in somewhere. Bulgars & Greeks are still  sitting on the rail making faces at each other, one  waiting for the other to step down first.  I was hoping we'd be in England before this and  having a whack at Germany - but apparently the  'Brass Hats' don't think enough of this Show. If we 
were properly supported - we would be able to clean  up this peninsula & Constan. - & then I believe the  Austro-German Confederation would crumble quickly  However we have to sit down, grin at one another,  & howl at 'Jacko' to wait till we get our temper up.  There's been the big mistake all along. Not enough  push - & when we have pushed not enough power  behind to push the object clear. There are exceptions  to the rule - 'All things come to him who waits' - the  result of our waiting so long - is that a mighty  lot more Turks have come, & miles of their trenches.  In this company I thought I recognised a face  & found it was a Ballarat H.S. boy whom I'd  played against in 1910 & 12. Two old class mates  in Charlie Gill & Snider Taylor came to me the  other day. Taylor is in "Dolman's Dinkums" - who  have been here barely three weeks, & don't know  what a Turk is yet. Paul is with them - but he  looks very weak. His brother fell somewhere on  Achi Baba - and he has sworn to avenge him.  Blackett is also with D.D. but I haven't seen him  yet. I'm writing to our Agent General to get  from Army H.Q & India Office particulars re  procedure tc necessary to joining Indian Army  I don't see myself settling down under, Mayghan & Co. 
There will not be much show in Aussie except  temporary appointments or Saturday afternooners -  & I believe in the Indian Army it is possible to  live on one's pay, & I would like to take up Mil.  work permanently. so I'm putting out feelers.  No English mail lately. I've not felt in the  mood to give you the rest of the details of that  Savi Bahr action - but there are two instalments  I must send later 1. "The counter attack at Lone  Pine" - 2. "How we won Hill 971 & how Pommies  lost it." Hope to hear soon that more Htn.  boys are in - especially Pitmans & Hodges.  I'm quite fit & well - & hope you're ditto. Rollo.