
Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury
Location: Anzac Cove Egypt Date: 11 November 1915

Text:
 21st Birthday   Well according to the date I am entering my  manhood under extraordinary conditions - on  Active Service & in the front firing line.  I would of course have liked to be in S. Aust  and at home today - but when our nation is  attacked by the dogs of war as she is today,  I think I am absolutely in my right place.  But all the same to think that this time  last year I was in the midst of serious Final  University Exams., today in a fight for existence  why then one realises what a chameleon kind  of individual it is possible for a person to be  I regret very much not being home today  but I hope it will not be long before I'm there  again. I think it will be a very joyous time  those 21 birthdays rolled into one.  It must seem very unsatisfactory to you  after having brought me up - Educated me to,  and then I rushed off at the very first chance -  but then I know what you would have thought  of me if I'd played the "stay at home". I  know you wouldn't have thought it "Australian"  I'm sorry I may not have the chance now to  repay you to some extent - but that is not to be. 
One of my aims has ever been to avoid that type  who leave home & only think of enjoying themselves  -I have always tried to consider 'home' first.  & if God spares me I intend to do so yet for  many years - until I have to a visible extent  repaid you for what you have done to me.  You told me when I first went to 'S. Mines'  to treat other folks mothers & sisters as I would  have my own treated' - & I have endeavoured to  do so - & that rule linked with the Golden Rule  is the best "back-bone of life"  I have tried to run straight - to keep my  mind clean, my eyes open, & I don't think  there were many bends in my track - although  of course I don't intend to pretend that I am perfect. On service one's language becomes weird and wonderful - but circumstances alter cases -but any how I've tried to be a "clean sport"  This letter is all jumbled up - but I hope  you can make out what I'm trying to say  Best love & wishes for your happiness too, Rollo. 
