France,  12 June 1916,     No 118 9  L/cp Dickson H.S  20th Battn  A.I.F  France     PS.  Just been chewing  one of Ernie's Sugar  Gums.     Dear Mr & Mrs Baker,  Here we are again.  Arrived home last Thursday morning after a most  enjoyable stay in the City of London. Found Ernest  quite well but awfully fat, in fact he is taking to  cycling to keep off condition. He is in excellent humour  today, having received mail from home, also from   his wife. Kindly accept an apology from  Mr Thomson (Tom) & myself for failing to ring you  up before leaving the City. It was our good intention  to do so, but owing to an appointment & some hurried  business on Tom's part, we found it was too late. However,  I must say, we will never forget the Motherly welcome  you gave us & only hope it is our luck to see once  again. We never tire of speaking of the feed we had,  Billy Jones is just the same. I have been a little  off color since my return but today I am feeling quite  ok & hope to be myself quite soon. After seeing you  my health was good during our stay in London, in fact  I blame the big dinner for fixing me up. I have not  seen Tom or Roy Armstrong since my return, as  Ernie goes with the rations at present, my turn comes  next week. Our trip home. was a sad & dreary
one for all the boys returning from leave, this is  quite natural as you will agree. However, I have  settled down again, but it took some doing.  Today is wet & cold, so Ern & I have just finished  fitting our stove in the hut. We had it outside when  the weather was hot, but we won't go to that trouble  any more. Everything is lovely & green now,  the crops are quite high, it seems a pity there is  any war. We missed Newmarket Races after all,  slept in too late, Gee we were wild. We had a   nice day at Richmond & Kew Gardens. Had a boat  on the River, met two wounded Australians & took  them for a row. So you see we were quite good boys.  I suppose the girls would say we were mean.  We also saw the Tower of London, St Pauls & numerous  other places. We were quite experts at finding our  way about with the assistance of the tubes. We felt  quite downhearted when we heard that Lord Kitch  was drowned. It was sad to think he went so soon  & just when he was wanted. It is now  3.30 pm & Ernest is asleep, he generally has 40 winks  in the afternoons. When is peace coming along?  I suppose you will know sooner than we.  I suppose you heard about some of the Aust boys making  a raid on the Germs, yes they brought back some   prisoners with them. Never lost one of our boys.  hurrah? Well I will close now. Give my  Kind regards to Miss Baker, & tell her I will  try harder to ring next time I get home to England.  Kindest regards to Mother & Father from one of the boys  Herc S. Dickson.