 
Author: Charlie Fry
Location: England Date: 5 February 1918
Recipient: Miss Allen
Nationality: British

Text:    Dear Miss Allen  Your very welcome   letter of 31st Oct has just arrived  and I was very pleased  to receive it, and I trust   this answer will find your   mother & self in the best of   health.  I am very very sorry  to know you have received  such cruel news and  deeply sympathise with you  in your great loss.  May the  knowledge that your brothers  died doing their most sacred   duty bring your mother &  self some measure of comfort  rest assured, dear friend  that both are safe at rest  with our beloved Master and   the memories of by-gone   happiness will help you   both to bear your great   loss.  I will do my very  best dear friend to give  you some information of  them, and have already  met one man who knew   your elder brother, and   from what he says, he was   very popular with every  one.  All he could tell
 me only confirms the news you  already have.  I will do my  best to try and get you  a photo of their grave.  Yes it is a pleasure   to be back in civilization  once more, but times are  very hard just at the  present time.  You have every   reason to be proud of Australia,   which is I believe  the finest country in the  world. and we can draw   some comfort in the knowledge that all our dear   ones live in a land of  plenty and have no fear  of a shortage of food.  Here in this country it is  terrible and it is pitiful  to see women and children  standing for hours in front   of shops only to be told that  they can get nothing.  Many   a man & woman in England  today goes to work hungry  but they tighten their belts  and carry on in such a way  as to show they are determined to go in and win at    all costs.  As you say it does   appear that some of the people  over here have a liking for  our soldiers for I believe  over 8,000 of our boys have  been married.  For my part  Miss Minnie I think they are  easily pleased. and when     my time comes I am fussy  enough to want a little  Australian Girl, that is if there is one who is not hard to please. However we cannot complain about the treatment we have received for it has been of the best. I think I am glad to hear you kept clear of  the conscription issue as it is a very far reaching question. One volunteer is worth a dozen conscripts and  if the voluntary system has failed I am of the opinion that those who are in authority
are to blame. When it is all over the men who have served will come into their own, if everyone is as staunch a soldiers friend as you appear to be. You have asked me a very hard question to answer, about the lonely soldier but I will be as candid as possible about it. Now in England I do believe it is only a farce, as the idea was I believe originated for men who had no relations or friends in Australia and most of 
men who came under that heading were natives of this country. Now that they are in their native country it does sound funny to call them lonely soldiers doesnt it when as a matter of fact they are better off than the average Australian. But the boys on the desert are totally different and I am sure the lonely soldiers is in fact a reality in that part of the globe, and I can assure you that your sisters letters will not only be welcome but appreciated. I hope you will continue to write to me, although I am now in Blighty for I am not one of the natives of Blighty but a dinky die Australian I am afraid I have excelled myself in the matter of writing, but that comes of being very interested in the work in hand. Still before closing I must tell you about the latest air- raid which was a very serious affair. Well it happened last Monday week and there were two attacks on the one night, one early in the evening and the other about midnight. There were terrible scenes. Men women and children rushing & tearing in all directions for shelter In one crowd alone 17 people were trampled to death. In another place a bomb dropped on top of a building that was crowded with people. It was totally wrecked and many were buried under the debris another bomb dropped on a soldiers home. Killing his wife & five children. The fear of the London people is pitiful to see. and it is hard to realise that nothing can be done to prevent these raids Altogether 54 people were killed and over 170 injured. What a God-send it is to us that Australia is so far removed and safe from these murder... attacks. Now I must close and I hope you will forgive me for inflicting this on you. Many thanks for all your kindness. and with the best of good wishes and kindest regards I will say Good bye and remain Very Sincerely Yours Charlie Fry.    

Y.M.C.A  WITH  THE  AUSTRALIAN IMPERIAL FORCE.     No. 232 Pte E.C Fry  Army Vety Corps  A.I.F. 