Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte
Date: 26 November 1914
Location: The Red Sea
Nationality: Australian

Text: 

The Red Sea
Thursday, November 26 1914.
 Left Aden at 5 o'clock in the early dawn We arrived there Wednesday morning & after waiting a few hours in the roadstead went into harbour & coaled. I was picked in a crew of ten to row the Colonel & Adjutant to several of the other boats. In spite of the hot weather & coal dust it was quite enjoyable. We spent quite a time at the Orvieto. They have 48 German prisoners aboard from the Emden including the Captain and a nephew of the Kaiser's The troops reckon the Germans have a better time than they do. There are 43 aboard the Omrah. What a fight the Emden put up. The account written by the press correspondent on the Orvieto was read to us this morning I suppose it will have appeared in the papers before this reaches you. It mentions nothing about the Konigsburg, but the wireless operator  told me I believe she was been captured about the same time. Well to tell you a little about Aden 
The troops from India sometimes spend a year here after serving their time. A Scottish piper while here, composed the most sorrowful dirge on record called 'The Barren Hills of Aden'. I can quite imagine it possible that a few months residence would give the necessary frame of mind. The barren hills of Aden. Great towering desolate peaks rising from a narrow foreshore of sand & rock & devoid of the slightest vegetation. The All the Arabian coast we have seen is nearly the same. There are quite a number of good sized houses in Aden. Barracks, official buildings cigarette factories and a cool looking club. The bay is alive with bum-boats; dinghies dinghies with 4 or 5 dark looking Arabs who take you down for everything they can They throw up a fibre rope to which they attach a basket & sufficient rope to let it be drawn up. You put your money in & let it down & they put in what you want. They always aske 4/- for anything you can afterwards buy for 1/-. Good Egyptian cigarettes were 1/- per 100. Tobacco, figs, dates & tinned pineapples 
were cheap.  There are all sorts of races there. Somali  Land niggers, Abbysinians, Turks Arabs Indian   coolies & the general mixture.  Some of them  have shaved heads, some curly & we saw  a couple of ginger haired Arabs.  They were  both used to being called 'Ginger'. We had  a good bit of fun bargaining & barracking   them.  The Coaling is done by Indian  Coolies from barges, who empty bags  into the hoppers lowered from the side.  There were quite a dozen Indian Transports  in Port on their way back from Europe  We have passed several today, all empty.  We are travelling with all lights out  to-night owing to the suspected presence  of a couple of Turkish men-of-war in  the Red Sea.  Friday Has been very hot to day. We are travelling  with what little wind there is.  Heard there  are quite a number of large men-of-war  about principally from the Mediterranean  fleet.  We passed several more returning   troopships during the night. One just before sundown was  numbered 156.  There have been more to-day 
This afternoon the 'Hampshire' dropped back  & got some meat from the Geelong Before  she had time to get back into position  a steamer was noticed steaming across  towards us.  The cruiser went out & stopped  her.  She was a Pilgrim boat bound for   the nearest Port to Mecca with pilgrims   probably run by Cooks.  What a unique  firm that is, running Mohammaden pilgrims  to Mecca.  I have found out that the capture of that  other man of war at the time of the duel  is correct but nothing is to be said about  it so be careful.  Saturday. Such excitement.  It was announced  just before dinner that we were bound  for Egypt for the Winter. There are all  sorts of rumours; that it is all of us except  the Artillery, that it is only the 3rd Brigade  (Queens., W.A., Tas., & S.A.) etc.  I don't suppose  we will know until we are actually  disembarked at Port Said or whever we do.  I don't know what to think of it. We  do not know how things are going  there or what chance there is of a 
holy war.  It seems a sort or disappointment   after preparing for a look at  the Old Country, but if we are destined  for Kitcheners Spring Army it will much  more comfortable training in Cairo  than Salisbury Plain.  The climate during  Dec., Jan., Feb., & March is ideal in the  former place.  Days like S.A. Autumn  & nights cold enough for an overcoat  You will get a lot of information about  Egypt from 'Whittackers International' an  annual periodical in the Library.  I  think it gives the different inhabitants  & system of army service.  It is   possible that we will garrison Egypt  in place of any doubtful Egyptian  battalions, for of course in case of   a holy war, Mahommedan would  hardly fight Mahommedan.  The troops were generally excited,  principally because of it being news  & because of the prospect of a change.  Except for a brush with Turkish stray  outposts, I don't think there is much  chance of fighting in Egypt. However you p will probably know a lot more  than this letter can tell you by the  time it reaches you. That raises another  question. I think it just possible that  we will not be allowed to mention anything  at Port Said. If so I will have to try &  scheme to get this letter off. I suppose  I will get the true soldierly method  some day & not speculate about  anything but take everything as it  comes; but oh this groping in the dark  Monday Nothing interesting since writing the  above. This boat is worse than a  drawing room for gossip. The yarns  that get about are marvellous. I have  started one or two lately & they went  rounded distorted and almost unrecognisable  We got Serg. Heritage to enrol members  for a 'Camel Corps' He was inundated  with applications all knowing everything  about camels. The chief draw about it was  that they were to get sergeants pay.  I was vaccinated today That completes   the list I think. I must be full of   anti disease germs. 
We should reach Suez to-morrow  morning early. We entered the Gulf   of Suez before Tea. Although Pt Said  is further from Cairo than Suez there  is no wharf at the latter place so  we could not disembark. We drew  out with two of the Shire liners this  morning & have passed the N.Z. boats  I don't know why we are pushing on. Some artisans  from the 'Hampshire' (Who came aboard  at Aden) assisted by several tradesmen  among the troops, have repaired the  rent temporarily by bolting several  plates over it. I believe our people will  not get the blame at the enquiry. The  'Hampshire' & 'Orvieto' heads collected  evidence at Aden. The rumour is  that the 'Shropshire' slowed considerably  without warning.  A cool head wind sprang up yesterday  & had made things quite pleasant. It  is almost to cool to sleep on deck  to-night.  The crew which rowed the Colonel & Adj  around at Aden had their photos taken with the officer. I believe we  are to get some each. If I get mine  in time I will enclose them.  Since I have had time to think it  over, I am rather pleased we are going  to Egypt. Even if we went to England,  I we would get hardly any leave, & that  would be more disappointing than  not going. There is certainly much  less chance of going to the front from  Egypt than England.  Tuesday 9 A.M. Dec.1st The anchor has just dropped off Suez  Orders have just been received to  proceed to Alexandria. I do not know  whether this applies to the whole of  the fleet or to only part. It may mean  that we are to be stationed there.  We are to mount a guard of 150 going  through the Canal. I suppose that is  in case of any Turks sniping. I  believe the Canal is lined with Indian  troops.  Wednesday We are nearly through the Canal & should  reach Pt Said about 1 o'clock. Left Suez  at 8 last night. It was too dark to see much of the town. They would not  allow any of the bum boats near us,  when we were at anchor in the bay.  There is a railway alongside the Canal  & early this morning we passed an armoured  train manned by Indian troops. Every  4 or 5 miles we pass an outpost of Sihks,  Bengal Lancers Punjabis, Soudanese, or Territorials.  At the various stations of which we have  passed ½ a dozen this morning there is an  guard The Indian troops look quaint in   their Kahki tunics & bare legs; It was very  cold last night too. There are great lagoons  each side of the embankments for most  of the way.  Another day will see us at Alexandria.  I sometimes feel sorry to think of the  voyage ending then, but I suppose we   would get very sick of it if we had much  more. It will be funny dealing with the  coinage, 10 Millions 1 Piastre = 2½, 100 Piastres  one Egyptian sovereign. We will have to   reduce every price to £ s.d. before we can  value it.  3 p.m. It was quite stirring arriving at Pt Said We were about the 20th to enter the Canal  so there was a harbour full to welcome  us. We steamed right through two long  lines of transports & men o war.  There was a British battleship, the Hampshire,  3 Frenchmen, a couple of mail steamers  & several coasters. The cheering was  tremendous. It has been like that  ever since, as each boat arrives. The  N.Z. s have coaled & two of them have just  moved off so I suppose we shall be going  soon.  All sorts of rumours are about dealing with the  Turks marching a force into Egypt. The It  seems ridiculous as their lines of communication   could be effectively cut by a   mere handful. I don't think we shall   see any fighting at all. It is even  doubtful if we shall leave Egypt before  the war is over unless we are relieved.  Well I shall wind up if I am to get  this letter posted. Goodnight little darling  I love you more than ever. Hope you haven't   forgotten about Xmas morning.  Your loving boy  Tom