Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte
Rank: Private
Date: 23 March 1915
Location: Ionian Mudros Bay Lemnos Island
Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade
Nationality: Australian

Text:
 H.M.S. Ionian Mudros Bay Lemnos Island March 23rd, 1915.
 
I feel awfully pleased having got No 18 off. It stands just a chance of getting through. As I haven't anymore duplicate books I am going to use the back of the pages of this. When there is a chance I will post both books. I gave Chapman a postcard saying what I had done which I should get through even if No 18 is stopped. This would be C 5. I forget to number the censored cards. Nothing further has happened of any importance. Some of the Castle liners went out this afternoon Chapman says there are walot of British Regulars to come here from India [[Inosiskillings]] etc. He was promoted to Sergeant to-day which is little enough considering the work he is doing. He is a son of Prof. Chapman & was in partnership with Goyder. They live like fighting cocks on the Frankonia. We saw the privates at dinner today. Pea soup, Roast beef, cabbage, turnip,

102
potatoes & tapioca pudding. We were offered some but hadn't time, worse luck. The brigadier & Cap Ross had lunch aboard
but we had to come back with Lieut Holmes & call again the afternoon We had a trip to the Hussar after war news & round the brigade fleet this evening with orders. The wind has gone down Considerably. Last night was pretty cold Out the north wind no doubt. It is funny reading the Turkish tales of the damages 100 to the Queen Elizabeth & then seeing her in harbour with nothing wrong except a hole in her funnel. Our news about the Invincible was corrected to the Inflexible. She has gone to Malta. A lot of warships have come into harbour since Sunday. They seem to be taking their time about the job. A persistent rumour to-day was that the main Turkish fort at the narrows has fallen. I have arranged about a hot bath to-night & must go so goodnight my love.


103
Wednesday March 24th  The wind still blowing from the North has kept the weather still cold.  From the hill near the 9th landing you can see a snow capped mountain in the distance.  I heard somebody say it was Mt Athos.  The wind the last couple of days feels as if it was blowing straight off something like this. Half a dozen English transports went out this afternoon including the 18000 ton Frankonia. Several men of war have gone out & some have come in.  A couple of French transports moved to a berth near us after the Castle liner had gone.  One is a great grey armed merchantman Both must be about 12000 tons each. Half of A Coy got ashore this morning at the 9th landing but the boats couldnt get back, so the intended battalion route march was postponed.  We had a row ashore this morning & were the only crew to get back without being towed.  This afternoon we took the Brigadier to the flagship for lunch & had a good time yarning to the sailors on the Hussar & Imogene for a couple of hours.  The Imogene lays alongside the flagship.  She is an Admiralty Yacht used as the  living quarters by the Admiral & Rear Admirals.  She was attached to the British Embassy at Constantinople at the outbreak of the war. 

104
The wind was at it's roughest when we were there but arrangements had been made to tow us back by a Picquet boat. Three boats were towed We were in the centre. The last one was dropped at one of the Castle liners. You can imagine how those jigs would yaw being towed at 10 knots. Well passing the Castle liner after dropping the top rear top boat off, the picquet boat turned a bit. We kept well out from the liner with the aid of our own rudder, but the first boat with a strain on both ends ran is rather close. We couldn't stand up for laughing when they got under two ports discharging bilge water. The crew was drenched. To completely fill their cup of woe when coming alongside the Ionian, they caught another ducking from the same thing. The poor beggars had been out since 7 this morning with no dinner. They had got straight across from the shore to the flagship but couldn't make any head- way dead against the wind. No wonder they were almost fighting one another.



105
Last night I had a hot bath in the officers bathroom. A [[brother]] Scot who has charge managed it. It looks like a regular thing now only I must be careful not to be caught. We had curried bully stew for tea tonight. My tummy is still feeling the strain though it is 9 o'clock. The part of A Company that got ashore were brought back at 8 o'clock by a pinnace which had to make a couple of trips with jigs B4 distinguished himself as usual. He had the two platoons trying to shift a large barge that was high & dry on the beach. Yesterday a company & a half of the 9th tried to unsuccessfully. While A Coy were at it the Colonel of the 9th strolled up. 'Who is in charge of this party' he asked. 'Major Beevor, sir' was the reply. 'I might have thought so' said the Colonel. The marvel is he never takes a tumble to his unpopularity. Sunday he affected his eyeglass again but he seem proof [[of]] against all sarcasm.   

106
Thursday The news about 3rd Brigade forming the covering party has been confirmed by Major Brand to-day in a lecture to B Coy. I didn't hear it but heard from some of B Coy fellows. I am hoping it is rough to-morrow & A Coy get the lecture. I believe the 10th is to go ashore soon to camp soon for the 3 weeks before moving up. The Queen Elizabeth is still in harbour  waiting for ammunition from England Major Brand says. He also said in his lecture they [[cabled]] will to Egypt some time ago for mails & money. [[GBMecrlchion?]] It has been too rough to-day for any crews to go off. This is a lazy life Being off all duties except the Brigadiers crew. I dont have to attend parades & when it is too rough have nothing to-do all day. One gets tired of reading & walking about the deck. This is the place to study human nature. You meet some rare characters among the men. One of the Brigadier's crew is the drollest I have


107
Struck for a long time He is known as Bouff Mackey. The pronunciation of Bouff is long drawn out. I never heard a more appropriate nickname Immense round bloodshot eyes & or heavy bovine face. Pure Australian in his language. You can never get him riold & when he is barracked he comes out with some of the drollest expressions imaginable. Bow in the crew is known as Windy a short nuggetty ex man of wasomen I think he is a deserter from the navy. Windy gets very sarcastic if anybody happens to tell him what to do when we are coming alongside. In his position as bow he operates the boat hook. Another character is Scotty Murray in A Coy. His name will be go down to prosperity as the perpetrator of the 'No shave No razor' joke on Beevor. He comes from Goffnock, Glasgow where Aunt Lizzie lives. His pet aversion is B4. When the first letters left here, he wrote a fearful description of B4 to his brother little knowing that it would be the object of his letter that would censor it.

108
Of course B4 could do nothing It would only be defamatory if published or returned sent to him. Scotty was up on a charge of being absent for 24 hours without leave at Mena He was not tried until about a week later When B4 asked him what he had to say, he bluffed  B4 he  that he was talking to him the very day he was absent & detailed a conversation he had with him. He got off. I could go on describing characters to you for hours. It is remarkable what a lot of globe trotters there are in the battalion I don't believe there is a spot on the earth someone hasn't been to. Even this harbour was visited by Windy when with the Mediterranean fleet. One very quiet chap was actually fighting in Villier's Army in Mexico a year ago. We have just been called out to take round orders & drop a couple of officers at the Suffolk The wind has dropped right down so it won't take us so long. Goodnight dear

109
Friday March 26  A mail closed today.  I sent a letter C 6 from which you may be able to gather that the 3rd Brigade is to form a covering party for the landing in Turkey in 3 weeks time. The war news to-day is reassuring containing particulars of the 120,000 Germans & Austrians captured at Przemysl.  The main point about this is the 1/2 million besieging Russians it will free.  It serves to compare this war with previous ones.  The forces engaged in this hardly noticed side show would be sufficient to settle previous wars. The weather has been very fine to-day. All the battalion have been ashore except A Coy.  We had a row to the 9th landing this morning & a trip with the brigadier to the Hussar this afternoon.  We also took Major Brand to the jetty. Our gallant Major B4 is now known to a few of the officers as the submarine owing to Keith Green telling them about my abbreviation of his name. Several of the French transports left to-day for Alexandria (presumably)


110
It looks as if they were going there to fully provision coal & water. The 3rd Brigade is the only British soldier force here now & will probably soon be the only military force here. I saw a lot of bacon arriving on board today so we will have a holiday from that eternal bully. Sunday  I wouldn't give up my place in the boats 28th crew for worlds.  It may have its disadvantage in the necessitating turning out at night but its advantage outweigh them tremendously. To-day we had the fortune to explore the Queen Elizabeth not only to wander round the decks but to actually be inside one of the turrets of those wonderful 15 inch guns.  I am getting ahead of myself however as this letter seems to have developed into a diary. We had to take Col Melkie the chaplain to the 9th landing this morning.  There had been some talk of rowing round the Queen Elizabeth if there was an hour to spare.  In anticipation Lieut Sexton & a couple of sergeants came in the boat with us.  I believe Sexton is some

111

 relation of Louie's but I have never liked to ask him, as he seems such a silly kid. Being calm we didn't take long to row over the two miles to where the 'Liza' lay quite near the harbour entrance. We rowed right round looking in vain for the damage the Turks claimed to have inflicted & then with our usual cheek asked if we could go on board. The Quartermaster soon obtained permission from a couple of officers strolling on the deck, & up we hopped not waiting for Sextons or anybody's permission. Obliging sailors on board soon had us in tow & seemed only too anxious to show us everything. The piece de resistance was the turrets I can only give you a hazy description of these awe inspiring masses of steel. They encircle the working parts of the guns & swing round with them. The shellproof armoured elastic steel is 15 inches thick in front you get inside by crawling underneath & popping up through a manhole. Then you get your breath taken away by the sight




112  of the machinery inside Everything is  worked by hydraulic power It is quite impossible  to attempt to describe it. The breach of  the giant was opened for us & we had a  look right up. I could have crawled right  through easily. The rifle of the bore must  have stood out 1/2 an inch. And then the  shells. Slightly under a ton they weigh &  it costs £850 including the wear & tear  on the guns to fire one. Down into the  bowels of the ship we clambered, bewildered  by the conglomeration of machinery. We  saw where & how the shells were placed  in the cage to be hoisted above to the  gun breach. Everything was as clean  as the proverbial pin, just a bit oily but  the machinery all showed bright through  it. Unfortunately we didnt have much  time as Sexton was waiting in the boat.  We had to decline an invitation to  dinner & come away after a glimpse of  some of the rooms below

113  Now about the damage the Turks have  talked about. The funnels had half a  dozen shrapnel bullet holes in them, just  the size of an ordinary bullet. The  deck had been renewed in a couple of  places about a yard square. Several  shrapnel bullet marks were showing in  other places on the wooden decks and  some minor dents in the steel armour.  It didn't cost the value of the shells that  hit her to repair everything. Of course  a lot of shells hit her but they just bounced  back into the sea. Not a man was scratched  Coming back we parted by near the  Inflexible which you will remember ran  ashore at Tenados. She didn't seem to  be much worse off than the 'Liza' &  only had a steam tug in attendance  Somebody said divers were examining  her.  The Albin Albion Canopus & Minerva we also  passed close to.  Only two French transports are left but

114  there are dozens of supply ships in the harbour.  This afternoon we took the brigadier ashore  Captain Ross was also in attendance. He  is one of the wittiest humourists I  have ever heard. He had the brigadier  grinning all the time. MacLagan was asking  him the meaning of several naval  signals flying. Cap Ross was described an  incident on the bridge of the Ionian  the other day. She often goes up with the  signallers. About 2 miles away was an oil  tank steamer. 'Who can pick out that  string of signals she is flying' asked  Cap. Ross. Immediately all glasses were  focussed while Ross sneaked away.  'I was going down the companion way  when I heard the murmers' he said 'sl it  was only a string line of washing she had  strung up the mast.'  He was telling the brigadier about the  Russian cruiser 'Askold' A Some friend  of his on the Minevra had told him  evidently. This blanky Russian doesnt seem


115  to obey orders too readily. She was ordered  up to the Dardanelles but didnt leave  until a couple of days after. When she  got there she wouldn't come out  when ordered, & was chased out. The  naval authorities are very amused.  She had a hunt on her own the other  day & fired some shells from her little  4 inchers at a quarantine station killing  two of the Turkish patients. The Askold being very  old & obsolete it all seems rather amusing   Some German spies attached to their  Greek Embassy as well as several  Turkish spies are suspected to be on  the Island.  It is pitiably amusing to read the Turkish  account of the greatest naval victory  since the Japs wiped out the Russian  fleet. They claim 2500 British slain  , the Inflexible suck disabled & hosts  of other imaginary lies successes. The actual  British casualties in the last engagement

116  were 51. They say nothing about  their own losses. One shell from  the 'Liza' exploded a magazine & kill  blew over 1000 Germans & Turks  to Kingdom Come.  In yesterdays war news a translation of  an article in a Greek paper states that  25000 Australians have landed at Lemnos  It points a great moral at the benefit  of official communiques as conducted  by the British.  Flight Commander Sampson is at Tenados  in charge of 21 seaplanes. The Germans have  placed a reward of £1000 on his head, dead  or alive which seems a bit low.  Two Turkish seaplanes are supposed  to be about, what oh' if Sampson gets a  chance. Truly we live in stirring times  Think of it, a visit to the B11, & Queen Elizabeth,  Daily contact with the Inflexible  Canopus & Albion,  three boats that distinguished themselves  at the Falklands, the Foreign Legion, Tureos   & Zonaves; a glimpse of heroes of many battles

117  even in this war; landing at an island   that belon doesn’t seem to belong to anyone;   waiting for the development of an attack   in conjunction of with the French troops  & an Anglo-French-Russian navy on  Turkey & Constantinople. I wonder what   the future holds? We seem to be in the  middle of the making of history .  A, B,+ D coys are off on a 3 days bivouac  to-morrow. Castro 20 miles distant is  a place of call. Three pounds of bully, 3 loaves  of bread, a blanket & oil sheet, 50 rounds  of ammunition and full marching order  is the order. How thankful I am the  brigadiers crew is exempted.  I read a book yesterday which I can  well recommend ‘Christopher Hibbault,   Roadmaker’ by Margaret Bryant. It struck  me as a very powerful book though the  finish clashed through sufficient material  for a dozen novels.  We had to bring Cap. Ross from the Minerva  last night after doing rounds, thats why 

118  there was no contribution yesterday.  I was thinking last night what a terribly  prosy letter writer I am. I don’t seem to be  any good at expressing thoughts at all.   If I  could only blossom out & express   them sometimes & get out of this terrible   habit of writing of mundane things. I don’t   believe there is a variety of 100 words   since I started. What is most annoying   I don’t see any hope.   I know that you know that you are   everything to me, I am thinking of   you constantly & only longing for our reunion,   I don’t like to express it again.  & again in the same old ditto phrases.  Sometimes I wish I were a poet.  Talking of poets connects long hair which  Would be disastrous on this boat. It is  what we call ‘Chatty’ ie lousy. Luckily   I haven’t had a bite, but lot of the chaps  have to have a hunt occasionally. One  wit was describing to me how he harboured 

119  a battalion of 'chats'. They were a complete  force with signallers, pioneers & all. "It was   over the odds" he continued, "when they started  manoeuvrs & entrenched themselves " on  my chest." How do you like the word  "chats" it sounds much more refined than  the other. Goodnight my love.  Monday Mar 29th The damage to the Inflexible is  worse than I thought. She struck two  mines but  her watertight compartments saved her. Mines  are generally connected by a wire so that a   ship passing draws them into her. Twenty   one men were in the mined compartment  & are still there. A lucky (for the turks) shrapnel  exploded  just above the range finders' crowsnest on   the foremast. We saw the riddled roof. Five  men were blotted out with that one. I expect  she will go on the slips at Malta & be back  again within a month.  Captain Lorenzo seems confident that the war  will collapse suddenly by July. It looks like   the brigadiers opinion.  We took the brigadier to the Suffolk this morning.

120  He is not going on the route march. The  officers cracked hearty this morning over their  loads but it was a delicious sight. One of  the mens complete load was weighed this  morning, it nearly topped a hundredweight.  It seems increditable.  I heard a good yarn to-day which I don't know  if you will appreciate. It was told by an   Irish wag who had the brogue to perfection.  An Irish labourer coming home in the  unexpectedly was surprised to find a man  in bed with his wife. To show his disapproval   he started knocking the furniture about  & tearing off the wallpaper. "Och shure now  look at him" said Biddy, peeping above the   bed clothes "showin' aff afore the strange  gentleman" The funniest part was where  the teller put his hands under his chin with  his elbows out when he came to Biddy's speech.   It was for all the world as near, as you could  get to mimicking a person looking out from   under bed clothes.

121  Tuesday Another rough day. Really this place  is fearfully erratic in its weather. We had a  storm from the South 3 weeks ago, the last was  from the South & this is from the East.  Not having anything to do in the rowing line  I have read "The Artful Miss Dill" by Frankfort  Moore. I am getting quite satiated with love  novels.  Things are quite slow on board with 3 coys ashore  C Coy have been employed on guards & fatigue  parties taking stores aboard. Jam, fresh meat & bully,  cheese, potatoes & onions, flour bacon and sugar.  We are to start on army rations the ships term  being up. Thank goodness.  It is wonderful how low your morals can  sink when you are hungry for any particular  food. A lot of the stores were stacked up near  the hold alongside our smoking room possy.  It was the work of 2 seconds to whip in a   case of 48-1lb tins of jam. Eight of us divided   it up & the case was dumped overboard before   a minute was up. What a feast we have  had to-day of bread & jam. I only looked once  at the bully stew for dinner.



122  Several cases of jam were accidentally dropped down the companion ways up forward  where C Coy troop decks are. The peculiar thing  about it was that when they went down  only the broken case was visible. Fellows who saw it say it was done as  neatly as anything could be. Another peculiar  thing is that no bully beef is short. A large half hundredweight cheese met  the same fate as the jam but in this case  it was only a few crumbs they found.   I expect there will be a noise about it but  they will be lucky if they find any evidence.  Good Friday Here it is 3 days without an  entry in your journal, but I have the best  of excuses. A supply boat from Alexandria  came in Wednesday having on board  a lot of Soudan cattle & 120 big bags of  mail. We were ashore at the 9th landing  when the tug brought them in & we helped  to load them on to a barge to be taken to  the Sonian for sorting. When we got
80 


123  aboard the 9th orderly room was stacked  up to the ceiling. Didn't the P.O. Corporal  work that evening. There wasn't room  for more than half a dozen extra hands  to work. We saw to it that Adelaide bags  were handed out first. It took Wednesday  evening & night all Thursday morning  & afternoon sorting & even now missorted  ones are turning up. I cant attempt a   description of my feelings getting your 3  letters, the two monogrammed knitted flannels  & the paper. There were two letters from mother  one from Linda, Tom, Freda, Feo, father, Lee  J C Richardson & Mr Bishop. I will tell you  about the others before getting on to yours  Mothers were just motherly notes. Your   fathers contained a peculiar sentence  '...The "_ _ _ _ _  and the risk of infection; much of the latter can  be avoided by keeping away from things unclean."  I was wondering if he meant anything between  the lines. Good heavens he must have a nice   idea of his future son in law Still I wont   surge as he may not have meant anything


124  Lex hasn't much to say not a word about   his best friend It seems as if he was sticking   to Newmarch & Allison. He says 'I suppose you   will take up soldiering in earnest' Not much.    Toms letter is quite sentimental. I am   surprised at him.  Is that true what Freda says about Molly  saying to mother that she was Mrs Brown   & when asked if she had any children saying   no but that they were fond of them & were   going to get 10 from Dr Russell. It seems   increditable. Freda signs herself 'your   future Sister'.  F  Feo writes such short letters with absolutely   nothing in them. I hope Linda has better  luck.  Now for old Richardsons letter. You remember   dodging that introduction to him one day.   He is a great chap & his letter is well worth   reading so I will enclose it.  Old Follen Bishop tells me that Mrs Bishop the   elder has her usual arguments & squabbles with   poor old 'Chooks' He says he scored some success   with a picture of wattle. He has not one   Australian picture his own property


125  A mail closed to-day so I sent you a note  C 7 to say I had received everything & would  reply next week as from the English papers  I have seen I gather there is no mail  leaving Pt Said between the Mooltan  on March 31st & Moldavia Apr 14.  There  should be another mail from here in  time.  I will write everything in here  & copy what I can out from time to  time.  It will act as a sort of confirmation  The great surprise of all was Feo enlisting  It seemed the last thing I expected.  Still  I am glad in a way.  You won't feel so  jealous of Linda & it will do you two good  in a way.  Don't think I am mean.  I am sorry about Algy & still sorrier for  Jessie.  That incident about the Freemasons  is the limit.  Anna seems quite demented.  I would suggest a medical examination.    Poor old George.  That quotation of Stewarts seems to have  worried you.  He meant Feo.  I think he meant   it in a sarcastic way so that is why I said  tell no one.


126  I am glad you received the d'oylies allright  I was frightened the collar would not be fashionable but it was the only sort they had Perhaps it could be altered or try your hand & passing it off on someone at a good price. I will keep a look out for some more d'oylies. Now when I come home I want you to meet me the first place you can. I will be looking at everyone on the wharf until I see you. I suppose there will be some mad procession & then you can wait for me on the Rug. I think I will always write it with a capital R.  Thank you very much for the Cornish ash tray, but you mustn't go spending money like that.  I had arranged about a Xmas present for you but something must have gone wrong so never mind. I laughed over your worry of infection. We always have our own blankets. Nobody has ever used mine since I joined nor have I ever used anybody elses. There isn't the slightest mark of infection about [Feo?] saying the soldiers will be kept on 6 months after the war. The attestation paper you sign states that you are signed on 


127  for the period of the war & 4 months after  the declaration of peace.  That is necessary  because sometimes the declaration of peace is  not the conclusion of war. Take the last  Balkan war.  But of course if the peace looks  alright & there was no chance of the allies disagreeing over it as in the Balkan war  they wouldn't keep you mobilised longer  than they could help.   I would never have believed it possible that  any woman could have resisted the temptation  of looking at a bankbook.  You are certainly unique   If you only knew what pangs that mention  of peaches caused. What wouldn't I give for  a luscious ripe peach.  I haven't seen one  since last year.   I'm hanged if I know which is my favourite  Romulus, Remus, Phyllis or Daphne I would have  to touch them all to tell you.  I like that about your first love letters.  What a  cheek.  It hurt me awfully at the time to think  you could let me have them & tear them up.   I feel sorry I have got to the end of your wonderful 


for the period of the war & 4 months after  the declaration of peace.  That is necessary  because sometimes the declaration of peace is  not the conclusion of war. Take the last  Balkan war.  But of course if the peace looks  alright & there was no chance of the allies disagreeing over it as in the Balkan war  they wouldn't keep you mobilised longer  than they could help.   I would never have believed it possible that  any woman could have resisted the temptation  of looking at a bankbook.  You are certainly unique   

If you only knew what pangs that mention  of peaches caused. What wouldn't I give for  a luscious ripe peach.  I haven't seen one  since last year.   I'm hanged if I know which is my favourite  Romulus, Remus, Phyllis or Daphne I would have  to touch them all to tell you.  I like that about your first love letters.  What a  cheek.  It hurt me awfully at the time to think  you could let me have them & tear them up.   I feel sorry I have got to the end of your wonderful 

for the period of the war & 4 months after  the declaration of peace.  That is necessary  because sometimes the declaration of peace is  not the conclusion of war. Take the last  Balkan war.  But of course if the peace looks  alright & there was no chance of the allies disagreeing over it as in the Balkan war  they wouldn't keep you mobilised longer  than they could help.   I would never have believed it possible that  any woman could have resisted the temptation  of looking at a bankbook.  You are certainly unique   If you only knew what pangs that mention  of peaches caused. What wouldn't I give for  a luscious ripe peach.  I haven't seen one  since last year.   I'm hanged if I know which is my favourite  Romulus, Remus, Phyllis or Daphne I would have  to touch them all to tell you.  I like that about your first love letters.  What a  cheek.  It hurt me awfully at the time to think  you could let me have them & tear them up.   I feel sorry I have got to the end of your wonderful 
budget I will read them over again in  the morning for the 4th time.  Goodnight  my lovely wife.  Sunday    I am getting lax in my journal  entries.  Most of my spare time has been  taken up reading SA papers.  You have no  idea how interesting we find Observers  & Chronicles.  It seems to bring us much  more in touch with home.  It is a wonderful  sight on mail day.  Everybody gloating  over letters at first & then over papers   There is a sort of competition as to who  gets the most letters  Some ran into  30 this time.  I am quite satisfied with  my lot though.   Nothing of any importance has happened.   The 3 coys came back from the route  march in good heart.  They seem to have  had rather a good time in spite of their  heavy loads.  They got to Castro in easy  stages & formed a guard of honour while  the Greek flag was hoisted.  I wish I had  gone.  They described the scenery as beautiful 
128   