Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte
Rank: Private
Date: 12 January 1915
Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt
Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade
Nationality: Australian

Text:

Mena Camp, Cairo. Tuesday, January 12, 1915.

My Lovely wife, It just struck me, I put no opening address in the last letter. I always leave it till last as you never know who might see it but I forgot this time. I have just calculated that yesterday you probably received my first letter since reaching Cairo. It seems  a terrific time & then another 3  weeks of more before I can get a  reply, oh dear it is heartrending. The lucky five were paraded before the Brigadier, Col. MacLagan, this morning at least only four saw him as that beautiful beast Major B4 refused to recommend Smith. He is in my opinion an unforgivable sneak & dog. Let me try to explain. Last Wednesday our leave day Smith & Fisher were late getting in not a very serious offence. If you get caught it never means more than 2 days C.B. unless a frequent offender. The passes did not come in from the outer guard until yesterday & B4 crimed them & gave Fisher & a lot of others in the same box 44 hours C.B. To Smith who happened to be an hour later than the others on a good excuse, he gave 7 days CB: an outrageous punishment considering it was  a first offence. His object was  to make the crime recorded, that is, anything over 2 days goes into your book & is entered on your discharge. Why he has such a set on Mickey is hard to imagine The only conclusion we can come to is that  it is he harbours resentment for Smith getting leave at Morphetville over his head. Last night B4 told the 5 of us for Brigade Parade at 8.30 today. When we were lined up before the Colonel preparatory to going before the Brigadier Beevor said he could not recommend Smith. Of the lot of us he is easily the most likely to make a good officer. easily Why he couldn't  didn't tell Smith beforehand he was going to block him, brands him as a sneak. It won't stop there however. We saw Lieut Talbot Smith & Cap Nott who both will  speak to the Colonel & adjutant & I wouldn't be surprised if B4  got into hot water. He will certainly lose all the little popularity he has seeked since we left S.A. There were half a dozen others from the battalion went up to the Brigadier with us & about the same number from the  9th 11th & 12th. He saw us separately and asked us all sorts of questions My age may go against me, 21 is the best age. Blackburns LL.B. will probably pull him through. I know no more of my chance than I did on Sunday. As far as I can gather from Col MacLagan the commissions are fore the second million of the Imperial Spring Army. He laid stress on the information that there was no guarantee if successful they would see the front They might be in garrison or sitting in an office all through the war. It goes against the grain a bit. If it had not been for you I should have refused point blank to go  on with it. I feel like a coward. Thursday. We have been at the ranges all day to-day. They are three miles out quite a long march in the desert. We started at 7 AM, that meant breakfast at 6.15 just as the sun was rising. The range was only 30 yards but there were very small targets. I did rather well. The first 5 rounds were group firing that is all shots within a 2 inch radius I got them within 1 inch The second test was 10 rounds quick firing in which I scored well. The third  was 5 rounds at a head & shoulders  target 1/2 inch across. You can hardly  see this at 30 yards but I managed  to fluke 2 bulls & 3 inners. It took   the two companies who went out,   until 6 o'clock to finish, which was  good going as there were only 24  targets to fire at. The hours march  back at dusk was quite pleasant  A company did pretty well on   the whole.  The weeks seem to have altered  their commencement from Sunday  to Wednesday, mail receiving day.  I received your letter of Dec 17 enclos-  ing a letter from Owen. His was chiefly  a letter of a private nature( that makes  you curious). He tried for a vacancy  in the Light Horse whilst on a  holiday in Sydney but failed. He  knew 6 men at Cocos. The one that  sent out the S.O.S. signals was  Percy Croft of Adelaide Your letter  was a dear. You can't imagine attack being made on Egypt shortly  or not at all, but what I believe   is that transport difficulties make  anything like that quite impossib  impossible. They would leave their   lines of communication liable  to be cut by a small force to say  nothing of the possibility of an  army leaving Turkey at the   present juncture. When Germany's   spies failed to blow up the canal   her plans on Egypt were finished.  Saturday Afternoon What a day was   yesterday.  The English mail   arrived with your letters of Nov   19th & 27th (2) including Mollies,   one from Linda and a Henley  programme & results from  Feo.    There was one from Gay Burns   first.  I got it just after coming   in.  I had just opened it & seen   from whom it had come, when   someone said, "There's some Adelaide   nurses."  I looked round & there   was Gay within 6 yards of me with two other nurses.  The   letter was written in the Red   Sea 4 days previously & posted   in Alexandria on the 14th when  the day after the Kyarra got in.  She had  come up for the day with all   the other nurses & had come out   to Mena in the hopes of seeing  the Gordons & me.  After a chat  I got Jack Gordon & we went as  far as the main ground just  near Mena House.  She said she  would write to you.  I am enclosing  her letter as it may interest you.  When I got back I got your letters  I can't think how many times  I have read them over.  If you  only knew what enjoyment  I get out of them you would   never tear any of them up.  Don't  be worried about them taking  up too much room, my kit bag  will hold any amount.  I am  not sure whether that the last budget accounts  for all the back letters.  In the letter of Dec 17 you say   "I did go to Marjorie Pybus's  wedding after all"  There is nothing   apropos of that in any previous  letter.  The dates however are  just about consecutive all  through, so perhaps it does not  mean anything.  Kiss Molly for me & tell her I  will come back as soon as  I can.  That cutting which says  the officer's mess is at the  Mena Hotel, Cairo is funny.  Headquarters Staff of the Division  is quartered at Mena House which  is also the base hospital.  We have all heard of Snow  getting 5 years which serves him  right though I think he must  have been hard pressed.  We have  heard of rumours of Kuhuel &  & von Doussa being in trouble  I can't understand about Lex He is  generally very good at answering  letters.  I have always felt pleased that I bought that rug  It is because  you get so much pleasure  from it.  My handkerchiefs  are lasting out all right.  you  are a darling to spend so much  time on the new ones.  Thos. Lindsay was brought very  forcibly to my mind the other  day.  It is not often I see a  looking glass but in at the  photographers I got a shock  to see how red my embryo  moustache looked.  I felt delighted  after the first surprise was over.  I know you wont believe me so  I will try & send it to you when  I shave it off.  Nothing more to report about  the commissions.  We have  heard absolutely nothing, nor  has the Colonel sent for Smith  yet.  Now for a bit of interesting  news.  Phil. Robin is to be  married tomorrow.  Phil. 
kept it quite to himself but from  one or two suspicious happenings  I jumped to conclusions 3 days  ago & tackled him with it  When on active service you   have to get permission from  h.q. before being married.  The Colonel was very good  giving the use of the officers'  mess for the ceremony & 2  days leave (all he could.) to  Phil.  They are being married there  as it would necessitate a delay  of 3 weeks if outside the camp.  Lieut Lance Lewis of the Light Horse  is to give the bride away & Mickey  Smith is to be best man.  Only  Blackburn, Fisher, Jose, Stokes,  Gordon, Major Beevor, the Colonel,  Les Canaway in the AMC (Phils  cousin) & myself are invited.  Smith has this minute shown  me a receipt he has written out  for any money Phil owes him  as a wedding present.  Phil had to borrow about a tenner  as he has not been able to get  some money he had sent to  London yet.  It is very kind  of Smith I think.  We have not  had time to get Phil. a present  yet.  Olive Haines may probably  be bridesmaide  She is a nurse   on the Kyarra to and may not  be able to get up tomorrow.  I don't remember telling you  the bride's name.  It is  Honeywill.  They are h.a. people  & have been travelling in  England some few years  tho two years.  I haven't seen her for 3 or 4  years & have forgotten what  she looks like.  I will tell you  all about the wedding tomorrow.  The company are on leave  to-day but I did not go in  to Cairo.  I asked Phil to get  the photos so they may be  out in time to post tomorrow  under separate cover I am posting you a couple of cuttings  which may interest you & a  new view of Cairo.  I don't know  anything of the part it was taken  from but it gives you a slight  idea of the size & style of archi-  tecture.  There was another cutting  I have mislaid of Sir Geo. Reids  farewell letter to the Aus Troops.  I won't trouble about it as  it is sure to have been cabled  in full.  As a letter I have seldom  read its equal.  It meets every  every requirement shows the  utmost tact & not overburdened  by a word.  By the bye how do you like  this idea of carbon letters?  It  helps me a lot.  There are only  60 pages in this book.  Major Brand was talking to us  the other day in the desert.  Among  other things he said we were not  to describe what we were doing  in the way of drill in our letters There was no talk of censorship  at present but if too much inform-  ation was published in the papers  the censor would be used.  There  is nothing significant in it but  don't wonder if I do not say anything  much about our work.  We will  probably be going on a route  march one day next week.  It is  only a few minutes before lights  out so I will say good night darling.  Every night when I have turned in  I smoke a cigarette & think hard of  you.  I don't remember when I have  gone to sleep without thinking of  you.  I enjoy that half hour nearly  as much as receiving letters.  Sunday Evening What a day!  Charles Garvice is not in it with  romance; but before I get on  to the wedding.  After church parade  this a.m. we had a review of a  sort.  General Birdwood & staff  posted themselves on the way  down from the sand hill on which the 3rd Brigade hold their  church services  We marched  past in lines of platoons, that  is about 30 abreast in file.  It was  not too good the sand being  difficult to keep a line on.  We had just time to tidy ourselve  up before the great event at  11.30.  Mrs & Miss Honeywill were  brought out by Lieut Lance Lewis  & had the use of Major [[B4?]]. tent  to do any necessary [[?]].  The  officers mess was set out with  chairs just like a church.  Phil had a new tunic & putties  which gave him a smart  appearance.  The bride had  some sort of a grey travelling  dress with a patent sort of  tailboard cut very neatly &  a smart white felt hat cocked  on one side in French style.  She is short & slight & not  bad looking.  Mrs Honeywill  is a fine sport.  She is only Nellies step mother you know   Nearly all of the officers attended   and only the privates I mentioned   before were inside. Outside   when the news got round   the crowd gathered miraculous   & before the service was through   were blocking up all the entrance.   The parson was Archdeacon Richard   Chaplain of the 35th Brigade   Mickey made a tip top entrance  Corporal  [[?]]trobe [[?]]  Register staff was there taking  notes for the Register where you  will see a full account. It  is necessary to explain something  before I tell you of the joke of  the day. The punishment of C.B.  (confined to barracks) entails the  following punishments besides what  is conveyed in the name. Between  4.30 & 5 all defaulters have to do  pack drill. Between 7pm & 9.30  pm they have to report half  hourly at the guard tent. A special bugle call is blown   each half hour as a warning  the words of which are 'You can be a   defaulter as long as you like   as long as you report every time  All the bugle calls have words   to them as 'Come to the cookhouse   door boys', 'Pick 'em up Pick 'em   up hot potatoes, hot potatoes."  After the service was over and   the couples health just before  about to be drunk the defaulter  call  was blown. There was  a roar as we had taken care  to spread the news among the  officers that Mickey was C.B.  Mrs Honeywell asked the Colonel  in a letter yesterday to try and give  we few leave for to- day to go   Cairo for lunch or the wedding  breakfast (whatever you like to  call it.) which he did but before  I get onto that.  They had a  wedding cake which Phil cut  with the Colonel's sword while we pelted them all with  rice & rose petals. We all had  a special shot at [ B 40?] bald  head with the rice. After the  speeches there was a surprise  when we got out. Half the  division must have been crowded  between the 200 yards from the  officers mess to the road.  The band were going for all   they were worth & a guard of  honour was formed with fixed  bayonets by A Company. All arr  arranged while the service  was going on as that was  only when the news got abroad  the cheers were tremendous.  Off the bridal party went in   a taxie not before they were  bailed up by numerous amateur  photographers. We followed a   little later. The menu card  I enclose explains the luncheon  It was one of the best I have  ever eaten. I forgot to tell you Sandy Melbourrne is a   Captain in the 9th (Queensland).  Phill knew him fairly well so  invited him to the service &  breakfast. He doesn't seem as   bad as I expected from you  girls' opinion. Afterwards we   sat round & chatted untill about  4 when the pair drove off on their  honeymoon of 2 days to a health  resort about 15 miles out where  there is a good hotel. We all  said goodbye to Mrs Honeywell  & went round the city. The new  places of interest I saw to day  was one the old massive gates   of Cairo right the other side.   It was a drive of about a   mile. Coming back we caught  a glimpse of the Sultan motoring  He does not look so weak as   one would think from his  photographs. The photos were  not ready. I saw the proof  but could hardly recognise myself. I am sure you will   be disappointed. They will be  ready next week. Nevermind  the next ones will be better.  Lance Lewis told me the Kyarra  nurses are all to be stationed  in Egypt. Some at Mena others  at the different encampments.  Well dear there is nothing more  I can think of to tell you.  We are going out shooting again  tomorrow. This with the route  march may mean something  change soon. A month on  the canal would give me a  chance to save some money.  Cairo is a terrible place for  running away with the cash.  It is close up to mail closing  time. I envied Phil mightily to  day. I wish you were here darling  Goodnight love  Your loving husband  Tom.