Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte
Rank: Private
Date: 22 January 1915
Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt
Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade
Nationality: Australian

Text:

Mena Camp, Cairo.  January 22nd, 1915.    My Darling Little Girl  Another letter day has come  & gone, with it, your Christmas Eve letter,  a couple of Henley programmes & a letter from  Jack O'Connell. I haven't heard from Campbell  yet, but as he was in Sydney at Xmas I suppose  it will be a fortnight or so before I hear  from him. I can't understand why you  had not received my Colombo or Aden  letters by Christmas Eve. From the Adelaide  papers, I gather both had been delivered;  the former some time before. I suppose   it is all right by now, but I admire you  immensely for not complaining. You are  a brick for you must have known other  people had received letters. The long letter  I wrote before getting to Colombo I gave  to a chap named Topliffe just as he was  & has returned here. He was a reserve  officer for the Black Watch. He was  telling his Platoon some of the war  news he had gathered from officers  on their 72 hours furlough from the  trenches. The French will have nearly   4 million men for the Spring Army.  Nobody knows how many recruits  are in training in England except  a few War Office officials. The main  thing is they have quite as many as  they will need. The Allies are not  making any serious attempt of advancing,  being satisfied to keep the Germans   in check at present.  General Joffre  considers he could finish the war  in a couple of months but at a greater  sacrifice of life than he hopes by   taking his time. If all this is true  things are indeed rosy. I have no reason  to doubt it. Of course it is possible  that the war may continue over the  summer but it would only be because  of the Allies value of life.  Major Brand read us some very being sent back as we all thought.  he was sen detained on the Orvieto  until we reached Aden when he with others was  invalided home. They probably reached interesting extracts from the War  Office reports this week. The Germans  are showing extraordinary bravery  when advancing in column of fours,  half a battalion will be wiped out; but  another takes its place immediately.  General French considers we have  nothing to learn from the German or  French methods of advancing infantry.  You will remember ours is to advance  in extended order, the troops taking  advantage of every possible cover,  plenty of which exists in the present  war zone. German prisoners say it  is particularly hard to see the British long enough  to aim. Ghouls or marauders are   plentiful behind the battle line.  The scum of all the great cities of  the world is reckoned to be there,  especially from America. They rob  the dead & wounded of rings & valuables.  Their shrift is short when caught.   The Germans have spies joining in  with Allied troops when forming  up after an engagement. They have been caught signalling in the trenches  It is very difficult to detect them as   their English & French is so good. The  British have adopted the plan of  asking every 4th or fifth man, the  names of men near him, and if   he knows them. They do this every  third or fourth night.  The atrocities committed by the Germans  in Belgium, Gen. French considers, to   have been somewhat exaggerated.  Belgian women and non combatants  have been sniping at German Troops,  after being warned about the penalty,  which is death. Of course this does not  excuse some of the German atrocities  but such are likely among any most  armies under certain conditions.  There are a few photos floating about of Phil & his  bride on their way from the officers  mess to their taxi, I will try & secure   some to enclose. Phil came back  Tuesday evening. When going through  the cheering troops the rain of rice  was tremendous. He was heard off & went out about 7, practising  night marches & manoeuvres & last  night entrenching. The brigadier  had a tour of inspection & we got  special praise. The day route marching  will probably be next week.  Our bath day has been altered to Friday.  I take a complete change with  me, even if my u.c. are not what I  consider dirty enough for changing.  There is a shower so we manage to  soap ourselves properly.  There is quite a bazaar now at the end  of the brigade lines. First comes a postcard  shop, then the 4 canteens, one Beer, one   lemonade, icecream & cakes & 2 grocery;  then a barber, haberdashery, washing,   jeweller, fruit shop, watchmaker, another   haby, another barber, tailor & bootmaker,  (peculiar combination), yet another haby,  a photographer, barber, photographer who developes  & prints your own photos, curio shop, barber, and  a nickelling shop. They are all roughly  made of matchboard & under brigade  supervision. I had a shave, haircut & shampoo today in a shop fitted up  as good as a suburban barbers. A clean   towel & antiseptically treated instruments  is compulsory. And all for 2 piastres.   I think it is much safer on active  service, than in Australia. There   have been much less deaths proportionately  in the Division in Egypt, than in Australia.  When I hear of Rex Thomas's death &  a soldier being run over by train I think   Australia looks a good place to be out of.   I had given up all hopes of the commissions  coming off until this morning when we  were asked to fill in the service application  forms. I included a few lies which they  have no chance of finding out but dont  feel the slightest qualms. Other than this  there have there is nothing further to report.  That p.c. photo of Molly is a dear. She  looks extraordinarily cheeky, I wonder  what mischief she was thinking of at  the time.  Sunday We had our company leave yesterday  afternoon. I spent a couple of hours  in the museum of Egyptian Antiquities There was only time to see half of it  most Cairo guide books describe it in detail.  The halls are immense & all of stonework.  It was most interesting. The mummies   are in halls all upstairs The chief one  is Ramses Ⅱ. It has been unwrapped & the  cloth placed back, covering everything except  the head & neck. Just a skeleton with the   black muscular & skin covering. There were  hundreds of similar ones with both stone  & wooden sarcophagi. It is difficult to  describe the expression & impression of   two immense sitting figures placed in  the biggest hall. I dont know what height  they are , but a life sized statue between them  does not reach past above their calves.  The Jewell Room was entrancing. I saw   the original of the necklet I sent you,  or as near as I could get to it. The one  I mean belonged to Princess Khaumuit and had  all the charms on yours, with several other  stones. The enamelware of the lotus blooms  was exactly the same. I had no idea   the ancient Egyptians were sh such expert  enamellers There were some wonderful examples of it. The thin gold ornaments  looked as if they had just been beaten   instead of 4000 or 5000 years old.  In one of the mummy rooms were some  glass cases of food, left in the toombs.   Bread, dates (only the stones left), raisins,  haunches of venison & several other things  we could not recognise. We were at  a great disadvantage not having a guide   or guide book. Next Saturday I will make  sure of both.  Later Gay Burns with another nurse has  just been over to see me. They She is   quartered at Mena House. All the  Kyarra lot have been stationed at in  Egypt. Some at Maadi, some at Zeitun  & Heliopolus. They didn't stay more than  half an hour, going over to the pyramids.  She asked me to send her love to all of   you.  I forgot to tell you when describing   the additions to our lines that 3 immense  picture houses are nearing completion.  One is immediately in rear of our 'bazaar'  alongside the Y.M.C.A. The others are over near Mena House. They all each look capable of seating as many as Wests. Ours is called the 'Cenen 'Pyramids Cinema' the others 'Pathes' & 'Empire'. There was something in the Register  description of the wedding that might be misunderstood. If I remember rightly it conveys the impression that Miss Honeywill hurried out here & got married just preparatory to Phill going into action. He intended to get married in England before leaving S.A. A nigger has just brought in a programme of the pictures which are to start to-night. 
I am enclosing it.  It was to have opened last Thursday. I am mounting guard at 5 o'clock.  We stay on till 5pm tomorow so this letter won't be as long as last week's. A short & severe form of influenza has been prevalent lately.  Jose was pretty bad with it a while ago.  It starts with a cold & a very high temperature.  This lasts sometimes a day only, sometimes 2 or three then it drops to normal & they are out of hospital in a day or two.  Pneumonia mostly in a very mild form has at been more common than usual. There was one death with it in from the 12th (Tasmania) the other day. There has been no Typhoid or Smallpox, very diseases very common in Egypt. I suppose you have seen Sir Frederic Treves report on Typhoid at the front. Two hundred & twelve cases among half a million It is miraculous. Think of the thousands that died of it the S. African war. You ought to get Dr Barkly Boll [[an?]] to do you. It only means a sore arm for a day. The second dose you dont feel. I myself am feeling very fit. Except for a bit of a cold sometime ago. I have never been the least bit out of sorts. I finished reading Dr Graves book on the 'Secrets of the German War Office' to-day. It is very interesting.  You would probably like it if you could get hold of it. He was in Truro, S.A as a doctor some years back, probably spying. This is the only book I have read since landing in Egypt. Other than the papers in the evening there doesn't seem to be much time. 
There was a mess up over the photos I would not take some awfully mounted caricatures they had ready so they have to print some decent ones by next week. Don't bank too much on them as you probably won't recognise me. The 3 months I have been away seem more than 12. I build castles in the air every day about the reunion. When I get back I am not going to think of work for a month & you will have to have a month's holiday even if it means the sack. We will go to the hills the beach & all our old haunts & not visit a soul for that month. I think it will be worth all the time we have been parted. I am so gal glad I have your photo. It is not getting knocked about much as I keep it tied up with my writing things, between two boards. The package fits into my pack nicely & makes it a good shape without taking much room. I will have to close now. Goodnight Darling. I love you dearly & will love you always.  Your own boy[y?] Tom. 