Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte
Rank: Private
Date: 10 January 1915
Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt
Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade
Nationality: Australian

Text:


Mena Camp, Cairo.
Sunday, January 10, 1915.
 On Wednesday I received your letter posted on Dec 10th It was lovely, only I felt quite wild when I read you had torn up some you had written. Please send as much as you can, you can't imagine how much I long for it. What I want is a letter once a week that will take 2 hours of each evening to read. I felt quite envious of  Smith getting a letter with 30 pages. None of the letters sent to England from 5 Nov to 28 Nov have arrived yet. I have seen  a Xmas Chron. & Observer but no other papers.  I believe they have  stopped all papers from leaving Aus., so perhaps we wont see any for some time. I have replied to Stewart's & your Aunts letters. Sorry to hear that about Uncle Geo.
It is a most awful fooking thing I don't like you being so much by yourself Cant you find someone to go to lunch with everyday I had my photo taken on Wednesday They will be ready this week but I am afraid I wont be able to get in until Saturday or Sunday. I wish this wretched war was over so I could get back. Dont worry about me being away for years as soon as it is over I am hot foot back to Australia not even a trip to England will tempt me. I am simply living for the day I can land back in S.A. We have had rather a trying week. Several days there has been a very strong South West wind blowing which makes it very unpleasant in the desert. The sand gets in your eyes mouth ears & nose & nearly chokes you. Friday night We A Company out on Outpost until breakfast time Saturday & to-day I am Battalion orderley. Outpost work is providing protection for troops when camped. Generally one-sixth of the entire force are engaged in it & hold points of advantage during the night The system is like this. In the afternoon the company or whatever force is chosen march out 2 or 3 miles & entrench themselves The positions are like a spiders web gradually thinning down to 4 men sentry groups on the extreme edge. In war time cavalry would do the scouting in the outer ring. The position generally taken is like this.  4 is the main body being protected of course they would have individual sentries at different posts. 3 is the trenches of supports sleeping with one or two sentries. 2 is the picquet with a couple of sentries the rest lying asleep in trenches. 1 is the sentry groups generally 3 men & a n.c.o. also enttrenched h with only one sentry on watch at a time The picquet position is generally the line of resistance so if the  sentriyes groups are attacked suddenly they are generally unable to fall back so they are protected from the five of the picquet by mounds at the back as well as front. If the attacking force is too strong for the picquet the supports rush over & if too strong for the combination the main body has had time to prepare itself. We were kept busy during the night by changing positions with One Platoon would be supports for a few hours & then change with the picquet & so on so that we got a little of everything except sleep. In actual warfare the main point would be to have as little movement as possible & as few men as possible not asleep. When the outpost body moves out a screen of is sent out in front of it to see the enemy are not observing the positions of the posts. Even moving patrols are done away with except just an hour before dawn when a small one moves out & reconnoiters while the whole force stand to arms. That is because then is the most likely time of attack. It started to rain several times during the night not enough to discomfort us but welcome on account of laying the dust. Saturday we had our weekly swim which we look forward too. We don't get dirty here like at Morphettville & there are splendid washing conveniences qu in the lines. I dont know whether I told you water was laid on right through the camp. It is stored in two great concrete, reservoirs one each on the hills each side of the camp. On Tuesday one burst near the top. Luckily there were no men sleeping in the track of the rush of water but some artillery were just about buried in the sand and parts of the roads were washed away It has made no difference to the supply. Shooting practise was postponed until next week. They have altered our leave again. Half the battalion on Saturday & the other half on Sunday. We probably wont be off until next Saturday. Then they have changed the duties All fatigues, guards, & orderly work is done by one platoon each day. Our turn was to-day so we wont get it again for 16 days A big shed is going up for a brigade canteen. The contractor for the old canteen a well known British firm, has been very unsatisfactory through over- charging for groceries. They have only been able to get over the contract now and we expect great things from the new one run by the military authorities. I posted a small book of views which struck me as characteristic and the chocolate tin with half the chocolate & some post cards. The tin is quite an artistic one & well worth keeping. We had a surprise for dinner today. Large tinned plum puddings from subscribers to the Daily Mail Fund! They It were was delicious & plenty of them.  They It seemed the finest I have ever tasted. Phil Robin's girl & her mother arrived yesterday. He has been lucky enough to get leave practically every evening he wants to. They had letters of introduction to the Colonel and some a couple of the higher heads. They came out to day to see the Colonel & when he invited them to afternoon tea he in the  officers mess poor Phil had to stay out! It seems awfully ridiculous doesn't it, but we don't think it half so much now, as we would have before we were Tommies. I suppose it is quite necessary from a strict military disciplinarian point of view I have thought of a few improvements of in our code and while the opportunity lasts we might improve them. What do you think of the following suggestions. As the use of the negative in connection with "rumour" does not get over the difficulty of any censorship of names of places, how about this? In a general letter the information I specially want to convey will be found by taking notice of letters or words written in back hand For instance in the rest of the letter I will show the following sentence "not leaving Egypt for 2 months" I want to warn you about the photo. I am sure you will not like it a bit. I have grown a wee apology for a moustache. I will tell you later on why. I intend getting one taken without it when I get some money. Perhaps I will have sufficient next time I am in town. For an ordinary sized cabinet they want sixty piastres for 6 or 20 p.t. for one Most of the photographers are French and they are fairly numerous That little bit has been very laborious watching for the letters. I have one little bit of delicious  news I have received for the last. The War Office has asked for a few Australians of the right sort as officers for the unimportant parts of the Spring Army. The conditions are that they must be privates of a gentlemanly stamp or something to that effect. They have kept it very quiet. Major Beevor spoke to our select 7 & promised to recommend Smith  Stokes  Fisher Blackburn & myself. Robin & Jose are not anxious for various reasons but we five are. As far as I know only 4 others, from Cap Oldhams company, have been recommended How many they exactly (in the Tenth) want I don't know, or what chance we have we can't find out. I am not building much hope on it however, I learnt only too well not to do that after leaving Andersons. There is some satisfaction in knowing that you are thought enough of to be recommended. Don't tell a soul of this unless you have received a cable before reading this. It would entail going into a special instruction class either here or in England I feel half sorry I have told you as by the time this reaches you you will either have had a cable or it will all be off. Well I want to write a letter to Feo & Campbell & as I feel tired I will close up. Don't forget to send me as much in your letters as you possibly can, pages & pages, I will enjoy every line. I am loving you more than ever darling. The one thing I constantly look forward too is when we are married.  I don't care a damn [[?]] the war. It is I am all [[?]] time thinking of you & build castles in the air of the time we will have when I get back & we are married. We will be able to make one another very very happy. Here's to the Reunion in May Goodnight Darling. I adore & worship you Sweetheart Your ever loving Tom  