 Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte
Date: 31 October 1914
Location: No  Coy England
Nationality: Australian

Text:    Darling Your beautiful letters arrived yesterday I have been reading them at odd times ever  since.  The first is the grandest I have ever  received.  I am writing this on the wharf.  I was on picquette duty yesterday afternoon & will be on till we sail this afternoon The WA troops are going on board now There are 4 men of war in harbour now Two cruisers from N.Z., A Japanese battle cruiser & the Pioneer.  The Minotaur from N.Z is at Albany with over 30 troopships. The Frenchman is probably there too. We heard last night that Turkey has joined in the fray.  This may make some difference to us as we may be detailed to Egypt as that is what Turkey probably has her eye on.  It all depends on how many troops have been left there. That would probably mean a very short trip.  I like the look of the war this past fortnight.  The German threat of an England invasion seems absolute bluff & the a feeble attempt to rally her. hard pressed Armies. I still am of the opinion that even if we go to England the we will be back about May. Kitcheners spring army of over a million, all fresh troops, will have the effect of routing the Germans if they last out over the winter let alone several a fresh Russian & French armies. Germany must have her full strength in the field now.   The effect of fresh troops are against those who have been through a strong hard campaign is marvelous, and as this seems to be a war of exhaustion, there appears to me, to be not the slightest doubt of the result. The only purpose the enemy have sprung is in their new siege guns which have made artificial fortifications useless. Kitchener always expressed his doubt in the ability of the European fortifications. The only fault of the stay here has been the scarcity of leave.  I have only had two hours which gave me a look round Fremantle only.  Mrs Fearley came down Tuesday afternoon when we were on a route march to the ranges and went 4 hours to see me.  Wasn't she a Briton she had a letter to Cap. Lorenzo from a captain friend of hers.  I didn't get leave though. I believe Mjr B4 settled it. Malcolm Smith got a day's leave through a W.A. Major,  a friend of his & B4 was very sore at some other leave that was granted from headquarters without him knowing about it he probably blocked mine. I should like to have had a look at Perth.  Of course the photo is out of the question until I get to England or I see yours every day. I like it better every time I look at it. It is the most perfect likeness ever taken. I often think how wonderfully patient & splendid you were all the time I was chasing shadows after I left Andersons. Dr Bollen was fortunately wrong about the measles.  There hasnt been a case since the first day & those are all up now They will still be isolated for a fortnight  yet. The reason of the shortage of leave is because of the abuse some of them have made of it, in overstaying. I was on picquette duty last night in Fremantle rounding them up.  If it hadn't been for that I should probably have had yesterday afternoon in Perth. I am glad to say I didn't make any mistakes when writing to Bessie & Aunt Emily. Its going to be awfull without you.  If it wasn't for the general excitement & the being kept going I am sure I would desert here. I will tell you a secret. Parts of your letter brought tears to my eyes & it takes a lot to do that. There goes the bugle to fall in & the mail will have gone before I knock off again. Goodnight Darling Yours ever Tom 


Reply to Adelaide Y.M. C. A. Army Department 