Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte
Rank: Private
Date: 2 April 1915
Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt
Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade
Nationality: Australian

Text:

Good Friday, April 2, 1915.
 My Dear Eileen I shall have to apply for permission to alter my birthday to April 1st never dreamt of getting such a mail in my life. It arrived the night before last & yesterday I got the pile. There were your 84 pages covering from Jan 31st to Feb 25th (perfect letters every one) two from mother one each from Lex, pa, Linda, Tom, Freda, Feo, Mr Richardson (my old schoolmaster) & Mr Follen Bishop. Then there were those very welcome knitted flannels, the Register & a Mail from Feo. Of course, the most surprising news of all was Feo enlisting I don't know what to think of it at any rate I am glad in a way. It is quite possible I may see him in a short while. I don't think the mail that closes to-day will find a connecting one at Port Said until the 14th so I am leaving replying to the budget until next week. It takes me a couple of hours to read through yours alone.

It must have been a shock to hear of Phil Robin's alleged death. There was never anything wrong with him It looks as if you had the same trouble with rumours in Adelaide as we have here. The knitted flannels are the most useful things you could have sent. I have been reduced to using handkerchiefs which are no where near as  satisfactory. You can assure Miss Bentley the scarf has been most useful. When it is not needed for what it is intended, it comes in for an ideal hip cushion when sleeping on anything hard. There has absolutely nothing happened of any consequence since I last wrote.  We are still going on in the same way. The crew is still going & when the weather is too rough we have a holiday. Land & Water of Feb 27 contains a very good article by Belloc on the duration of the war. It is the first of a series. We are getting fresh meat now & a little jam so  things are beginning to look brighter The censorship is still as severe as ever though it seems ridiculous in the face of information we have heard of being published in papers in neutral countries. Love to all Yours ever, Tom.