Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte
Rank: Private
Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt
Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade
Nationality: Australian

Text:



on the 'Strand', the shops at   the back of the lines, from 'Retreat'   to 'Reveille' only so I have had   most of to-day to myself. There is   great activity, preparation to striking   Camp. I believe we are taking our   tents with us. There has been fresh   issue of nearly all clothes. I believe   we are to get caps the same as the   second contingent. I have 4 pairs   of boots now which I managed to get   by gentle engineering. The ones   I had at Morphettville are as good   as new in spite of two being twice   soled. It will be a job to pack my   kit bag. Four shirts, two cap comfortors 1 dz Hkchfs. 2 singlets lined with wool   6 pairs of socks and everything else   issued.  There doesn't seem to be much fresh   in war news. The Russian retirement   out of East Prussia was expected   a month  ago in highest military   circles. I am enclosing a cutting   that may interest you.  We are going on leave to-morrow   Sunday. We are off at 7pm tonight march to Cairo  entrain at 11 & reach Alexandria early. 

A few more ships have arrived & we are all ready  for departure but nothing seems to be known  of when we are to be off.  Wednesday An opportunity offers so Goodbye for  the present.  Yours ever  Tom.     Wednesday Evening Aprril 14, 1915
 I missed the opportunity mentioned above but  may just possibly get another better one to-morrow.  I missed the last by 10 minutes so you can  imagine how disappointed I am.  A mail closed to-day so I wrote you a short   note C9.  There was nothing to say so I am afraid  you will be disappointed at your birthday letter  for it ought to reach you about May 23.  I only  hope this reaches you at the same time.  I am so sorry I shall not be there.  I thought I  would sure to have been,  last October.  This war  seems to be proceeding very slowly.  Still I think  it much better that the Allies evident purpose,  of making it a war of attrition & saving thousands  of lives is worth all the waiting.  An English mail arrived yesterday & Fisher got   two copies of Land & Water.  The articles are  very interesting.  We have not been kicked out of the 9th Orderly  Room yet though it may happen tomorrow morning. The 10th are embarking   on the 'Ionian' destination unknown.    We had our leave yesterday. We managed   to get up a team to play the Englishmen.   Some of the best players could not go   & their places had to be taken by 5 very   raw mugs. I suppose I will have to blame   them for our horrible licking of 20 to 6.  The Terriers  played a very fine game   & I can quite believe they would beat   any team left in England.  I was selected   as captain. The Terriers had the advantage   of us having had plenty of practice at there   own sticks. Our passing was very erratic.  I managed to get 3 of the 6 goals. In   the evening several of us dined at   the Restaurant Parisian and after   a short wander around came home.   We struck tents at 6.30 this morning   & have been straightening the place up   since. It will take us all day so I  won't have time to write anymore.   I hope we get our mail this week   before leavingleavin. It is quite likely we   won't leave Alexandria for a week as   I believe the whole division is to go .   They are calling me. Good bye for the present darling.   Remember every week parted will make the reunion  more wonderful. Your loving husband Tom. 