Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte
Rank: Private
Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt
Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade
Nationality: Australian

Text:

the forces are further apart.  It struck me after reading your letter you  didn't like the idea of missing writing to  me Sunday. If ever you have a chance to  be away Sunday afternoon & evening don't  let that stop you. I would sooner you  were having a real holiday than that you  should miss it on account of wanting  to write to me. I will understand. So if  you get the chance of a week end, & want  to please me, take it & miss writing.  The wind has gone down but we were  not ordered out to-day.  Do you know you missed saying anything  about Molly in your last letter.  We heard to-day the Liberals had been routed  in the SA elections. The news came from  London. It is something of a surprise to  me. I haven't heard how the 6 o'clock  pub closing got on. Nothing more to say  except Goodnight Sweetheart.  Thursday night Apr 22. Well it has come at last.  The Colonel said in a lecture this morning  that he expected we would be off to-morrow  
 Mena Camp, Cairo. No 16. Feb 26. 15  Friday  
My Dear Sweetheart,  We are to move Sunday  according to the latest 'Mulga' The ninth  & 11th are not going ahead alone but the  3rd Brigade. Perhaps this will be the last  letter you will get from Mena It seems  quite sad in a way  I suppose we must give up No 1 letter  That chap must have lost it or forgotten  all about it. I will go over your letter  bit by bit & answer your many questions  Why do you ask about getting the Trousseau  to-gether. Most certainly I want you to & dont  ever say or think again that it might have to be given  away. I feel as certain of coming back whole  as it is possible to be. Moreover the more  I see of this army the better I like my chances  There is one thing certain A Coy of the tenth  will never get the dangerous jobs to do.  6 The Brigadier & Colonel are fully aware  5 of our friend's incompetence. Then again  4 the 10th are not the best commanded  3 battalion in the brigade from what I can  2 hear from headquarters and the brigadier  1 is as careful as it any canny Scot can be
You remember I used to hardly touch it but  now I prefer it to anything. To-night we  sup had a tin of strawberry jam for supper  I scored it the other day at the Hussar's  fle canteen.  Patience is all the rage now Anywhere  on the boat you can always find somebody  playing. We unearthed a set of dominoes to-day  so I suppose that will be the go in the 9th  Orderley room for a while.  No more mail has come along yet.  The Light Horse are still back in Egypt  I believe & likely to stay there for a while  much to their disappointment you see  nowadays aeroplanes have done away with  most of the cavalrys job scouting & reconnaisance  All the British crack cavalry regiments have  at times been in the trenches. Of course  they could do nothing even without aircraft  when the trenches forces are so close to-gether  no doubt the Light Horse will be  required when we are established in Turkey  & cavalry will come into there own when.   From an officer just landed from  England comes the news that half the Spring  army from Britain has been successfully  transported to the continent. This if true  will make our chance of getting into  the firing line rather remote for some  time.  How I hate to read of you tearing up any  letters. Don't be afraid of any confusion there  many letters being in one envelope. I  absolutely love unravelling & piecing them  together.  The Australian P.O. officials have been  very generous. It came out in orders  when we landed here that postage  on letters had to be prepaid & this still  holds good as far as this end is concerned  I was surprised in a way about the birthdays  I thought the sequence was in March  How I got that into my head I don't  know. I will write a letter to your mother  this mail though I dont suppose she  will receive it until after Mar. 20  It was delicious hearing of Mollies  slang. She must be getting on wonderfully  quickly.  I cant think who Vera Rowe is for  the life of me. I seem to know the name  
knock to Beefvor. If our bit is successful  Talbot Smith will make his name First  in charge of the scouts on whom will depend  nearly everything then in charge of the machine  guns I reckon these two will be the most  two dangerous jobs. And the boy is only  21 but what a chance. For your sake I am  glad I am not a scout nor in B or C Coys.  Goodnight my Darling.  Wednesday April 21 Still inactive with nothing  out of the ordinary happening. Rumours  persistently float round concerning all sorts  of ridiculous ideas. Just for something to  do somebody makes up some awful yarn  & springs it on some simple believer & round  it goes. I have started some myself & a day  or so afterwards they have come back  distorted & hardly recognisable. Something like  this must be happening in Adelaide.  Our fresh meat is exhausted so we are back  on bully. I don't eat much meat nowadays  but have a violent appetite for bread & jam yet I can't remember any girl of that  name. Perhaps she believes in Spiritualism  or Bhuddism & it was in a former life  she missed her chance. However I don't  blame her.  I have carefully read over Beans  famous letter. I have an idea there  will be trouble or lots of paper talk.  It seems to create great resentment among  the soldiers. Everywhere you hear  condemnatory opinions about it. On  a close analysis I can find very little  that has not some truth in it but  the whole thing creates such a false  impression. I feel sure it will do much  more harm than good. It would be  grossly unfair to publish the names of  those sent back & the reason. If they  do there will be trouble I feel sure.  Whoever the military authority is who  asked 'But do all Australians drink quite  so much' I don't know but I know  this he is a wowser or an ignoramus  Drunkenness has been comparatively  very little in Cairo. Think of 20000  men landed in a city like Cairo with plenty  of money & no restraining influences  and the dop liquor to drink. It has of a land force. The position of some of the forts  in the narrows wont allow of their being  shelled except at a close range in which  the ships have a 1/8 of the chance of hits that  the forts have Then the mobile masked  batteries that take up a different position  every night & the floating mines put the  odds in favour of the forts as well. This  war has shown that the fixed firing of  fortifications will go the same way as  the blunderbus. A mobile train battery capable  of being masked & moved at will has every  chance. Witness the holding out of Prezemysl  & Verdun. Liege & Antwerp went in a few  days. This is going to be a tough job but  if Hamilton & Carden can't are willing to  tackle it well something's doing. Oh I wish  I could tell you some of the things I know  & have seen, you would marvel at the  ingenuity of man. This much I can hazard  as far as the 3rd Brigade is concerned The 12th will  be reserve 9, 10 & 11 in that order with 10 in the  middle. B & C Coys in front & D & A Coy reserve. What a   all along seemed a marvel to me  that there was not much more.  Any lady travelling in the last trains  to Mena would have found nothing  to remark on except perhaps the crowded  mess for the roofs are crammed as much  as anywhere else. I have seen more  disgusting sights on a Saturday nights  train to Hyde Park than I have seen  on the Pyramids train.  The headlines the Advertiser & other  papers have put in tr show it up  in the worst line. Bean says only  1 or 2% are responsible for all this  unameable scandal. Well that is a very  small percentage of wasters in any army  And the heinous crimes they have committed  consist chiefly of breaking leave Take  the 10th battalion. Seventeen were sent  back in the first batch, 10 as medically  unfit most of whom will enlist again  7 as discharged ie the wasters Bean talks  about In the second batch 10 of each are  been returned. Of these more than half  are old hands that is South African soldiers,  British regulars or many men mostly of them  do joining this force as deserters & more  than half are not Australians at all. 
The man cannot know what fear is.  The wireless on his 'plane keeps the warships  informed of any hidden batteries he  spots & smoke bombs dropped enables  the range to be gauged unerringly.  We heard news yesterday of the destruction  of 2 British submarines of the E class  The appear to be too big for the work required  These two were trying to get within striking  distance of some shore submarine tubes  when they were stranded. Sampson kept  the Turks well out with bombs while  the crews were rescued without mishap.  He then settled the subs with a couple of  bombs.  Jane hit the nail on the head in Land  & Water of Apr 3rd when he surmises the chief  difficulties of the Dardanelles as the mobile  batteries. The great error most people fell  into when the outer forts were reduced so quick  was that it would only be childs play to  settle the rest. Now it is a job that can't  be tackled by the Navy without the assistance
This is I believe about the same as in the  same as in the other battalions. Some  of the wasters' would be the finest soldier  in the 'world in the firing line but  because they have more than once  broken leave for longer than a day  they are classed as deserters and after  being o kept in detention here for  periods varying from 7 to 28 days are  returned. One man as an instance from  our company. Scotty Robertson a five  foot six nuggetty chap immensely popular  with officers & men especially with Major Nurcon  for whom he would do anything. Fourteen  years in the Black Watch is Scottys record  When he was on parade no neater, smarter,  more soldierly man could be found and  drill, he was a picture to watch. But  Scottys only fault was booze. A few drinks  sent him over & then arose his violent  dislike to policemen. Luckily he to never  did any harm as the Redcaps know how  to deal with fights. He didn't reckon the  native policemen worth calling such.  Our "old woman" got her say' at last  (though Harcombe was heard to say  he wished he had a regiment of Scottys  and Scotty is going to Australia to 
What a touch of pathos is in the story one of the Oceans crew told me of a sailor on the Irresistible When the latter was sinking he managed to bring off his canary. He with others were transferred to the Ocean only to sink again. The man & canary are still alive & well. Then there are ships that took part in the fight in Heligoland Bight, Falkland Islands, sinking of the Blucher & submarine destroying. I have spoken to men who helped in the defence of Antwerp, men who retired from mons in the most wonderful rearguard action the world has ever seen, advanced to Ypres, that battle that will rank Sir John French with any general & the British infantry as the finest in the world & the B11 heroes. Sampson is a wizard. I believe he insists on going up every day more as a constitutional than anything else. He can get too high for their guns but still be of use in observing He has been known to loop the loop when a shell has exploded near, drop a bit to garrison he was hit & after dropping a few bombs as souveniers doffed his cap.
hop into the next contingent by hook or crook. This case is not peculiar I am firmly of the opinion that the heads who are responsible for this returning are poor judges of human nature. There was a real rotter in this battalion who got 12 months in the Malta gaol (which will not be unfamiliar to him) for hitting Froggy Oldham. He was a cockney regular & joined as a deserter. The slovenly appearance of some men is easily accounted for by the sloppy & only uniform we had. Every man has always been critically inspected before going to Cairo but if his one & only uniform has been showing the result of 5 months constant wear, who is to blame. It is all not about old soldiers showing off. This alone shows Bean off as being unreliable. I have spoken to lots of veterans, we have 4 in A Coy who could be relied on for an opinions worth having as to why most offenders are old soldiers. Our Sergeant Major who has been a soldier all his life & seen more than one campsaign put the position this way. When a recruit joins the Regulars discipline of the hardest
first to the Minnewaska then the Hussar then hunting for a supply ship for a couple of drums of dynamo oil for the Ionians dynamos. While we were alonside the supply ship a gig full of Russian sailors from the Askold were taking off flour. They are a clean limbed fair featured type. One I noticed had a slight Tartar type of face. I rather liked the look of them. I had a swim off the stern to-day but it was too rough to enjoy it much. It struck me to-day what opportunities exist for a journalist in this place if the censor would allow it. There are a few sailors on board who will assist in the landing some from the Reliance & some from the Ocean. The Reliance has been in action more times than any warship existing. She took a prominent part in the bombardment of Tsing Tao. Then the Ocean was in the Persian Gulf affair afterwards taking part in the Suez Canal defence  & then sinking after being practically sacrificed  to draw the Dardanelles forts fire so that  the masked batteries could be discovered 
sort is down on him from the first hour If he is any good it may slacken but the discipline is there as if the commanding officers judgement in knowing how to deal with men. In this force it was quite the opposite Discipline was very slack at first & gar tightened spasmodically and the officers did not know how to deal with men. These old soldiers of the unsteady sort took advantage of any licence & the heads dontnot knowing how to deal with them have resorted to discharging them & inspiring articles like Beans to shift the blame If things are no worse than in any other army (from what I hear we are angels to streets above the Canadians) why do all this harm by these flaring head lines. Do they imagine they will improve things this way? If they do I know nothing about human nature. They sent a circular to the second contingent on their arrival at Port Said which accused us of scandals in a similar stream to Beans letters. When they landed they found most of it to be record exaggerated & what was 
The Minnewaska a 15000 Atlantic liner with A & H of Army Corps headquarters on board has 4 or 5 alleged Turkish spies on board. They were arrested on the island. I don't know the particulars. There is a rumour that operations are suspended for a fortnight. We may know to-morrow. Tuesday Apr 20 An unexpected mail lobbed late last night. About one this morning Roy White threw over a couple of letters for me Yours of the March 19th one from Lex. There was only 2 bags but more is expected to-morrow so I may get further. I can't understand how my letters could have missed the mail so consistently You should have received No. 13 by Mar 13 then each previous one seems to have been a week or fortnight late. I answered your letter to-day in C10. This mail is going to the A&H of Army Corps headquarters boat to-morrow so it may be going to Egypt by a transport. Yesterday & the day before were dead calm but to-day was too rough to go out. We had a long pull yesterday afternoon  
the result. They were more 2nd contingent drunks in Cairo their first week of landing, than in the first week of the landing of the first, 3 times their number. Then these unmentionable diseases. Egypt has been notorious for venereal disease since history began. The many ancestors of these people were the ones who helped to introduce syphillus into Europe through the Crusaders. They are supposed to be under control of the authorities & medically examined but they are not. The semi respectable demi-mondes seem to be the worst & the result is that the proportions of officers bitten is as great as the men. These diseases can be prevented to a certain extent, but the authorities did not take  steps in time. Well I feel much better having got all this off my chest At any rate you will be able to size up the truth of Beans or  any other article for yourself. I am enclosing 2 photos taken at last Sunday's lacrosse match. The group is the 10th battalion team & reading from left to right show Top Du Rien (referee) Edwards, Whyte, Nott, Gordon, Edwards 
The tucker is still fair. We havent had to open any bully for a long time. I noticed a peculiar flavour in the boiled mutton to-day & discovered afterwards it was goat. I suppose they have exhausted the Soudan bullocks & couldn't get enough sheep on the island. We are still in the 9th Orderly room & no talk of having to move. Plans must have been altered. I reckon it will be a world's record will be established in weight carrying when we land Our ammunition pouches are full 150 rounds in addition we have 50 rounds in our haversack Besides the usual luggage 3 days rations are carried (biscuits & 3 tins bully) and 2 days emergency rations (2 tins bully, biscuits & 2 little tins containing tea, sugar & enough oxo for 2 cups.) A waterproof sheet is strapped on the pack, in my case 2 so I will be right if it rains. The whole equipment with rifle must weigh 100lbs. Once we are established packs will be taken off but it will be hard work climbing hills with that load.  

& Blackburn. Bottom row Kent, White AH, White RN, Gower, Fordham & Rhodes. The duet is supposed to represent me in a characteristic attitude 'humming cigarettes' I am not quite as black as the photograph would have you believe. You can just see the a Mena tram in the background of both. The trees are on the Pyramids road. We could not show the do. as a background on account of the position of the sun. I got hold of some interesting particulars of the fighting on the Canal. Major Brand & some other officers went down to have a look round afterwards & this is from his lecturette to #4 Platoon whom he happened to come across in the desert. 

We have been told quite a lot about our  plan of attack etc. but it is not advisable  to commit any of it to paper.  I was right  in what I said on page 40 about B4.  More than this I cannot tell you just now.  The 'Cecilia' an army hospital ship is lying  quite close to us.  Australian nurses of the  1st Stationary Hospital are onboard.  When  alongside the other day I made enquiries  about Gay Burns but she is not theres.  Last night & this morning we have had  rows to the Malda at the other extreme  end of the harbour about 4 miles.  Luckily  it was dead calm.  The harbour was a beautiful sight last  night.  With only the men of war in darkness  & the lighted portholes of the transports  showing reflections in the dead calm water  you can imagine what a sight it was.  You lose all sense of proportion of the size  of ships with these great 15000 tonners  kicking around.  Even the Ionian, 9000 tons  looks small beside them & yet she is  2000 tons larger than the Kyarra or Kanowna. 
The British forces pumped water from   the canal into the low lying ground shown in   sketch as A&B (shaded) rendering attack   on Kantara only possible where our forces   were most strongly entrenched Y-Z.  The first attack took place at 3.26am but   was easily repulsed. At exactly the same   time a Turkish force of unknown   strength advanced right up to the canal   to a point marked X between Ismailia  & Toussum & launched galvanized iron   boats. The fighting at this point was very   fierce for a time but in the end the   enemy were repulsed (this is evidently   where that strategy described in a previous   letter was shown by our forces).  Had they brought forward their 25000   troops in reserve about 6 miles away   the issue may have been different.  There is some who believe the reserve   refused to go forward.  The boats were used by the Turks had   been dragged across the Sinai Desert   on sledges by relays of men.  Wonders will never cease. The second   lot of 'wasters' were to have embarked   a week a go but the boat was not   ready. The were all sent to Abbassia  
Sunday Apr 18  I feel mad with myself for missing that golden  opportunity of sending you this book.  The Osmanieh  was going back to Alexandria with kitbags,  sick etc. Chapman went with her as also did  Lieut Robley who is going back to Australia.  Chapman had left the Ionian 10 minutes  before I heard & the boat was gone the  next morning.  I will have to wait & chance  an engineer friend on the boat though perhaps  it may be months before he gets a chance  to post it.  Although we seem to be nearer departing since  I last wrote we really have no definite knowledge  of when we leave.  It is 7 weeks to-day since  we left Mena so to-morrow we will have  been 49 days on the Ionian exactly as long  as we were on the Ascanius..  Time has passed much the same the last   few days as before.  Yesterday evening we   moved right out near the mouth of the   Bay.  The harbour seems nearly full.  There must   be close on 100 transports, supply ships & men of war  
3 or 4 days ago & placed under watch   there. Half an hour ago Scotty turned   up here & made straight for Major   Hurcombe who has promised to do   his best for him. He only heard yesterday   we were to move soon. However he broke   away goodness only knows.   'Ah thought Ah wud be able to kill a   few more Germans if Ah wint wi this   force insted of ha'ing to gaw to Australia   & back' he explained to the Major.   What a character he is.  We are still in the dark as to our   destination or actual date of departure.   Since writing on Tuesday the war news   unfolds yet another likely objective.  I'm in Constantinople. If the Allies   intentions are serious & a Russian   attack is really intended on the    Dardanelles an Australian landing   party from the side would possibly   be a help. Still what's the use of   all this surmising.  You will know   long before this reaches you I expect.  A&B Coy did all the Divisional guards   & fatigues instead of the 9th Battalion   for the 24 hours commencing 5pm   yesterday. I caught an easy guard. 
Had quite a hard day to-day.  Went ashore  this morning & been round to several  boats this afternoon & across to the Malda after  tea.  We have practically been at it all day.  When the wind is favourable we use a sail  in the boat.  Black kit bags had to be handed  in to-day.  I think they will be sent to  Egypt where our base will be for the  present instead of here.  Water & landing  difficulties decided against Lemnos I believe.  If we make sufficient progress in Turkey  I expect the base would be moved to there.  I put all your letters in my kit bag.  There  is plenty of room there & the opportunity of  reading them over again on the way home  is worth all the risk of losing my bag.  Well here we are no ‘forrader' than when I  started No 19.  Oh I wish it was all over &  I could be with you on May 24th.  Still what's   the use of wishing for the moon. I am just  going to finish up with Goodnight my Darling.
Tom.