Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte
Rank: Private
Date: 3 February 1916
Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt
Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade
Nationality: Australian

Text:

Mena Camp, Cairo. February 03, 1916. Wednesday.

My Dear Little Girl No mail received this week. As it none was expected it is not so disappointing as it might be. There seems to be lots of interest at least interesting to us to tell you this week. First of all the 7th & 8th battalions have gone to Ishmalia to day The next likely to be sent are the 5th & 6th This would complete the 2nd Brigade (Victoria). Well to start from the beginning. Our long promised route march came off Monday. It was a 3rd Brigade affair & under service conditions so all our transports, attached artillery, ammunition column, light horse A. S.C. & A.M.C. accompanied us. From the enclosed card you can see our pack is quite a weight. We started about 9 o'clock the artillery leading the way. The route was on the Cairo road as far as Ghiza a suburb about 4 miles from Cairo centre & 5 miles from Mena, From there we branched off on a native road that winds through the cultivated Nile valley, being crossed by lots of other similar unmade roads. We wound round towards the camp striking the desert about a mile behind the camp. On the flat sandy plain between the valley & the rising sand hills, we bivouaced for lunch. The road was a bit trying on the feet after so much sand walking but not many fell out. The route we took led us alongside 4 Arab villages. The whole of the Nile valley is densely cultivated and about every mile there is a native village, Bedouin, or Arab or Fellaheen whichever you like to call them. I think some of the P.C. I sent you showed you some. They seem to be just one mass of mud flat roofed houses built joining one another without order or design. Of course they are filthy in the extreme & the smell __ . The roads are all 6 or 10 feet higher than the land & the whole valley seems to be intersected with them. The land is irrigated by water channels of varying sizes. Where necessary the water is raised by means of a bucket attached by a rope to a long pole weighted at the short end & fastened to form a lever The filled bucked is emptied into a chan raised channel. A less crude method is by the old mill bucket worked by a blindfolded oxen native bullock A large wooden wheel with buckets attached is fixed horizontally vertically so that the lowest part of the wheel is in the water while the highest allows the water from the fixed buckets to fall into the channel The ox is attached to a large wooden wheel placed horizontally on a raised axle. This wheel has rough wooden cogs which fit into a similarly cogged vertically wheel connected with the water wheel. The distance between the latter two is bridged so as to allow the ox to tramp round.  At one of the villages we passed, the sound of an oil engine seemed very out of place. The old & ancient method of ploughing still holds good here. A wooden plough of the roughest material with a couple of oxen spanned. Six & seven thousand years ago the inhabitants of this land used the same method. But there are hundreds of things like that, one of the reasons Egypt is so interesting. The whole march was about 11 miles which we took 4 hours to do including a ten minutes halt every hour, which is very good. Fordham who came into our tent at the time of the platoon & new section formations had been sent to Hospital one day last week. Yesterday morning a major from the A.M.C. came over & took all sorts of particulars from us Fordham had smallpox in a mild form. The morning was taken up by vaccinating A Company Only those who had taken well thoroughly on the boat were exempt. I think I told you mine didn't as well as 75% of the battalion. The vaccine was weak I believe. I dont think there will be any doubt about this time though as my arm has started to itch already We had something out of the ordinary to do to day. No 1 Platoon was detailed as fatigue party to entrain A.S.C. Stores at the Goods Station for the 7th & 8th battalions proceeding to Ishmailia We caught the 11.30 train after an early dinner, passing the 1/2 brigade on our way in. We had to wait some time but when started loaded the trucks in no time, so quickly that the A.S.C. Major in charge complimented us highly So at 4 o'clock we were marched to the YMCA rooms where we dropped equipment & rifles & went on a two hours roam of Cairo 5 Sunday I spent between the Zoo & Museum. I think I told you in  my last letter. There are to be alterations in the curriculum. We are to get 4 full days leave a month from 10 to 10.30 & have Sunday as rest day. I don't know about Saturday afternoon but the ordinary days will be lengthened for drill so that it will mean being in at 4 or 4.30 instead of 3. Tomorrow is our first days full leave. Friday Had a glorious day yesterday With Stokes Blackburn & Jose, I spent the morning at the museum. I haven't see anywhere near all yet. The more I see the more I want to see. There is one thing I am positive about. There is nothing new under the sun. Old Solomon knew a thing or two. In a glass case at the museum among sundry other interesting things is to be seen Dice, no different from our every day ivory ones, knuckle bones mad carved in stone with heiroglyphics on them (I have Arab & Egyptian kids playing with them) & most remarkable of all an oblong cribbage board with the same shaped ivory pegs in them as you can see in modern times. There was no description cards to them  it so wh for what purpose they were it was used 5000 years ago I don't know, possibly dice scores. Did I tell you about the companies 40 strong of Egyptian & negro heavy & light infantry in (well carved wooden models) marching in column of fours. And the models of bake houses, breweries (fancy beer in those times) potteries, wine shops, and granaries with the clerk sitting on the flat roof tallying on his papyrus scroll. I can't describe the feeling that comes over you when you view these ancient things. The afternoon we spent going out to Heliopolus where the second contingent hase just reached. The tram service is the best I have ever seen It is really an electric train. Seven years ago this 6000 populated suburb was practically a desert. The Belgian company who inaugurated it also own the tram service. Quite a separate company from the general tram Co which is a French concern. The houses are all white & magnificent oriental buildings all inhabited by the wealthiest classes. We managed to dig up several we knew & came into town with Reg. Hopkins & showed him round It was quite a treat to watch his astonishment & bewilderment grow as we pushed him on from novelty to novelty. Of course we only had time for a tenth of the things we would like to have shown him. On the tram coming from Heliopolus we got into conversation with a fine looking 6 foot educated Syrian who has some job in the war office. He told us some very interesting things.  The Syrians seem to have a lien on a lot of important jobs here. For instance the two leading papers 'Mokattam' and 'Ahaly' (both Arabic) are run by Syrians. The Egyptians have made several abortive attempts at papers. We had a very interesting discussion on Orient & Occident characteristics. He spoke like any highly educated Englishman. It seems I was wrong about an attack on the Canal. To-day has come the news of about 2400 Turkish casualties (rough paper estimate) & 2 officers & 13 men killed & 68 wounded on our side. It is supposed the enemy's strength is 12000 men & 6 batteries. Whatever the position is, I can't think it serious from appearance of things here apart from 2 battalions of N.Z. & 2 of Australians & the some engineers there are no Australasian forces near the canal & no threatened movement of us in the near future. There must be 33,000 or so Territorials here in other parts of Egypt & the Soudan as well. What Indian troops are on the Canal I don't know This morning we had some field manouvres & this pm. bathing parade. To-morrow morning we are to go to the ranges. Saturday We have been out all day and A Coy Nos 1&2 Platoons are 'Inlying Piquet' to-night. That means sleeping without taking any clothes off & getting up before reveille. We had an early start at 8 this morning to the ranges Our section had to go out as markers It was quite an experience sitting in the trenches hearing the bullets zip zip & ping overhead. The zip is from bullets passing too high & the ping from richochettes. We left the ranges in time to march about a mile back & have lunch. The afternoon was spent entrenching in a good position to await an attack from the 9th Only one thing was wrong; our left flank was too exposed which the enemy took advantage of & our  A Coy had to retire as the Brigadier ruled we had been all wiped out through being enfiladed, that is our trenches had been fired on lengthways from a good position. However we got the victory. We heard nothing of the shoot off for the prize offered the other day until this morning, when a pipe was given to each of another section which had saved the cartridges over. A lot of the chaps have been picking up books on Egypt. There are a couple Sir Gilbert Parker has written, I forget the names, one is Donovan Pasha or something like that. Perhaps they could tell you of others at the Public Library if you are interested. We have been getting most of the English magazines on the war. The best easily is 'Land & water' a weekly paper with an articles by Hillare Belloc. They are wonderfully interesting & not hard to follow. Nothing further about the Canal to-day except that there is a rumour that the New Zealanders were taking part in the brush the other day & had several wounded. I dont know if this is reliable or not very likely it is like most rumours we hear, started as a joke. The trouble there will probably cause a delay of a day or two with last weeks mail. Fisher had a letter from his father in which he said they would be delayed at Port Said for a day. It just struck me that the recent engagements on the canal will be in the papers & perhaps you will be worrying over me. Don't forget that no news is good news. You will know if anything is wrong before you read it in the papers. 
You remember me telling you about our procession on New Years Eve. Whom do you think that long Queensland conductor was. Ted Wreford who used to be in G&R Wills. He was down at the Grange one day when Tom lived there. I hadn't seen him for 3 years until the other day, when I struck him at the canteen. By the bye you might be pleased to know I have never been in the least way tight since leaving Australia. Sometimes when we come in from a hot march I enjoy a pint. When we go into Cairo we never have more than a couple of drinks. There are any amount of pubs of a sort about Cairo now. They shove up a flaring sign "The Sidney Bar", "The Melburne Hotel" "The New ZeLand Bar" "The British Lion" etc. They are most disreputable affairs The restaurants are the same. They vie with one another with giving the most number of eggs. The best one I have seen had a big sign "Tea with milk & sugar bread and butter, 5 eggs and bacon, for 3 piastres". They always mention the number of eggs. 
Sunday. Our canteen has been enlarged & improved You can now get hot meals for a moderate charge. Bacon & Eggs are the favourite A big plate for 3 pt. Icecream is another addition, Beevor has returned from Alexandria. There is a rumour that he may get second in Command of the 16th Battalion (S.A & W.A second contingent) I only hope it is true. There has been no fighting on the Canal the last two days. Some of our chaps saw some N.Z. who came up with Turkish prisoners last night. They have had a few pot shots at outposts. The first company were in the trenches for 24 hours & when the second were [came to] relieve them they didn't want to go out & had quite an argument. They have had one officer killed I believe. Well its getting on time & I want to write a few postcards. I can't think of anymore to tell you except that I am loving you more than ever. Everything looks good for being back in May or very soon after. Englands 3,000,000 fresh troops combined with Russia's & France's ought to settle things very soon. The last number of Land & Water has a very interesting article on Germany's Spring Army which it proves to be not cannot be more than 2 milllion. Good night my Wife your ever loving Tom.