Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte
Rank: Private
Date: 1 March 1915
Location: Alexandria Egypt
Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade
Nationality: Australian

Text:

Alexandria,  March 1st, 1915.  My Own Little Girl,  It is now 5pm & we are likely to  pull off at any time.  I posted No 16 from  Cairo but as late orders came out that all  letters were to be censored it may have  been held up on that account.  I sent  you a postcard to this effect.  We left Mena at 8 o'clock last night marching  into Cairo where we waited for a couple  of hours in the square of the Kasr el Nil  barracks at present occupied by a regiment  of Lancaster Terriers.  Although it was 11 when we  arrived they were kind enough to open  their canteen & we soon bought them out  of pudding, bread & cheese, cold meats, tea  etc.  The march from there to the railway  station (central) was about 1½ miles  The roads all the way were be  tarred macadam  & played up with our feet a little, after being  used so much to sand.  none of them seem  to be sore to-day.  We had a slow train  journey of about 5 hours which landed us  in Alexandria at 8 this morning.  I was sorry the journey was mostly in  the dark as I would very much like to  have seen a bit of the Delta.  As it was We saw quite a lot this morning.  Vivid green every where.  What intense  cultivators the Egyptians are.  Every square  yard seems to be utilised.  They don't waste  ground on fences not even round there  cemeteries which have no dividing line  between them & the fields.  The villages are  much the same as near Cairo.  Mud shambles  with an appearance of being all joined together  with no system or method whatever.  The ones  we saw this morning were lower roofed than  near Cairo, smaller & with frequent domes  Yo It is not hard to imagine how Egypt supports  22 million people.  I don't think you could ever  be out of sight of one of these villages in any  part of the valley.  I have heard a yarn that  Lord Kitchener while a captain in the Egyptian  army disappeared for 3 years. He spent it  'doing' Egypt as a native.  If it is true what  a wonderful story he could tell.  The Ionian is not a large boat, about 6000 tons  I think an Allan liner from the American trade.  She has just come from India.  Some shells  she bought that need refilling as well as other  Cargo for England has been landed here  There was large quantities of firewood waiting  to be loaded when we arrived.  These two  circumstances conclusively [[prove?]] we are not going to Europe.  Firewood would only be  wanted in a desert.  The general opinion now  is Alexandrietta or Jaffa to cut up the railway  so as to successfully prevent any raid on  Egypt for some time.  The accomodation is not quite as good as on  the Asconius but as it will only be a 3 or 4  days trip we wont notice it.  The 10th & 9th  with Brigade Headquarters staff are on board  This morning while waiting for our time to  go on board (11.30) Smith Jose Fisher & I did  a slope to the city.  We drove about the narrow  stone paved streets for a while & then pulled  up at a fine hotel in the European quarter  We had a magnificent feed of ham & Eggs  & coffee & came back without being missed  Alexandria is different to Cairo.  There is  a much greater number of Europeans (mostly Dagos)  about.  The streets we went through had all  a similar appearance being both a closer  mixture of Eastern & Western than Cairo.  There they are nearly all distinct.  Of course  we only had time to see very little  The harbour is full of shipping & a lot of  likely looking transports are about.  We will  probably pull out to night into the stream  Goodness knows when you will hear  from me again.  I haven't the slightest idea of what the mail arrangements will  be.  We may be only there a few days or we  may be there a month.  I hardly think we  will see any fighting.  We will be well above  the Turkish raiding army.  If they met  us I hardly think they would fight.  They  must be in a most deplorable condition  The state of the prisoners in Cairo could  hardly be worse whatever must their  state now be.  I have joined a cable league.  anything  interesting is cabled to Fordham the broker  in Adelaide who send postcards out to about  a dozen of our fellows people.  Your name  has just been added to the list, at least  he was informed last mail.  I only heard  about it yesterday  Saturday or I would have  joined before.  a cable was then sent 'Leaving  all well' as much as the censor would allow.  In case of anything serious a private direct  cable would be sent.  Fordham has the  shortest cable address & the best means of  informing those in the 'ring'.  It is getting late now & I think I had better close  so as not to miss any chance of posting.  I will  try & send a series of postcards of the 'Book of  the Dead' the Egyptian Bible at the same time  The only thing I feel concerned about is that I  dont know when I will get another letter from you  Goodnight my darling angel.  Your own boy Tom.