Author: Eileen Chapion
Location: Cortoon
Nationality: Australian

Text:


BILLIET'S Grand Coffee Palace, ADELAIDE.
Hindley Street, 
Sunday
it doesn't say you haven't left there. I wish you were in England or anywhere, safe, till the war was over. I also see in the Paper that the soldiers would appreciate those knitted flannels, so I hope you’ve got the two I sent you a few mails back. I’m dying for the days to pass and poor Linda wants them to go slowly so as she can have Leo with her longer. In a way I dread her going, because I know exactly what it's like and what she'll one another again. Last night Kathleen Isaachsen asked us to go round there, so  I went. You said to go, even if it was an effort, didn't you? But I didn't want to go after what Tom Boykett  said. I just wanted to cry. He asked when last I’d  heard from you and said he was always thinking of dear old Tom, and that your only fault, if fault it could be called, was that your heart is too big. I can’t help thinking of that.  thinking of course, those made of brass & in outside. They are pretty little ash trays too, I like them I think the cushion covers (if what they are) are a bit gaudy  though. I have put them in your chest of drawers, because I havent any more room in my little box where I keep the hard ware. Tom, dear, its so horrible not knowing where you are, or where to send my next letter to you, and I hate thinking Your'e nearer the front. Everyone is.
Linda wishes joined and that she   given her consent, and the worst of it is that Leo is half- hearted about it, which of course makes them both unhappy. The way you acted, Tom, was so different and thinking of that has made me realise what a Comforter you are. You are a born Comforter, and I adore you for it. You are my Comforter. You are wonderful and marvelous at “comforting”, and  Leo can't. I would sooner have a "Comforter" than a Colonel.

February 18th, 1915 I am posting the Register and 2 knitted flannels which I do hope you receive. You like these flannels, don't you? Mabel Halley has given me such a lovely big photo of herself. I’m giving her that nasty one of mine, that the Photographer spoilt but gave it us free. Father sends his love and says he will write next mail. Jack was delighted yesterday he went with Mother to choose a new suit with long pants. Every one is remarking on the way he is developing. Molly is getting so tall. She is not fat but just nice. Her legs are lovely and very firm. Every one says how like me she is growing. Isn’t  it funny? I said Goodbye  to her this  morning and she said "Goodbye Love" She said to Tom “Say we go outside, Kid, and have a game” I told her she was nasty not to write to you. I said “ You never write to your Uncle Tom” She absolutely flew into a rage and yelled at me "Silly  thing, I do. Silly thing I do, You silly sing I do." about a dozen times she was so wild & then said “I write to Tom every time," she meant "every mail". I said “what do you put in it” She said "a tamp" meaning "stamp". Poor little thing she was so cross because she's always writing to you. I never go to Anna's now. I can't he bothered. Today I bought a lovely piece of white silk for a blouse. It was 3 /1 1/2 yd for 2/3 as it was a remnant. I got an extra good one so as it will be good for when you come and you always liked me in my white blouse with red buttons, didn't you? I have also bought the wonderful silk stockings and put them in my box. They are to wear the day you come home. I am getting an engagement trousseau & a wedding trousseau . Goodbye for the present Tom dear   Eileen