


Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte
Rank: Private
Date: 18 December 1914
Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt
Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade
Nationality: Australian

Text:

Mena Camp Cairo.
Friday, December 18, 1914.

My Darling Angel,
It is difficult to imagine  hat Christmas is only a week  off. I can hardly realise that  it is December even. Out tent  is going to have a gay time. We  have put in 10 p.t. (2/1[[?]]) each  for a real blow out of Turkey  Plum Pudding etc. in addition  to any special rations we will  get. Everything is getting along  famously. We have a tent to about  15 which serves to keep our kit  in & to sit round of an evening.
As we prefer to sleep outside there  is not much inconvenience. The food is much better than  at Morphettville. Our 6 a day mess  allowance goes to buy Salmon, Sardines,  Milk, Butter, Cheese, Eggs, Herrings  in Sauce, etc. quite enough for  a comp good meal a day.

The routine is much more  interesting, Breakfast at 7  Reveille at 6, early morning parade  6.30 breakfast 7.30 parade 8.45  then we march a couple of miles  into the desert & do battalion drill,  company drill, semaphore signalling,  entrenching, bayonet fighting,  ceremonial drill, general field work  & extended order drill. Sham fights  & shooting will come on later I  expect. We take our lunch with  us & start back at 2 or 3 o'clock  doing battalion work on the way. We are dismissed about 3∧or 4 o'clock.
Every eight days the company gets  from 2 till 10 leave. Our turn comes  again to-morrow. At 5 we have  dinner except  & then the rest of  the evening to ourselves except  when on guard or piquet work  which happens about once a week
I am getting as hard as nails.
I could sleep on a barbed wire  fence. The desert is very hilly

8 GENERALS AT  FUNERAL
Eight generals will act  as pall-bearers tomorrow at  the military funeral of  Major - General C. H.  Brand. They are Lt.-Gen. Sir  Sydney Rowell, Maj.-Gen.  C. H. Simpson, Maj.-Gen.  J. S. Whitelaw, Maj.-Gen.  S. H. Porter, Maj.-Gen. S.
F. Legge, Maj.-Gen. R. J.  H. Risson, Maj.-Gen. B. M.  Morris, Maj.-Gen. E. J.  Milford. The insignia bearer, who  will carry Gen. Brand's decorations,  will be Major G.  C. Batchelor, who served  on General Brand's staff in  the First World War.
[*3rd Aug 61. Aged 87.

all sand, stones & rock but  not bad to march on. I cant  help remarking on the change of in  our officers since the be embarkation  B4 & the others are still strict  but much more in reason &  far easier to get on with. The  other companies say the same  of theirs. Perhaps it is because  they have more bosses too. You see  the Colonel has the Brigadier to  boss him now & he also has  to obey orders from divisional  headquarters. The brigadier, Col.  McClaggant the brigade major, Major  Brand, have impressed us very  much, the little we have seen  of them. The men would do anything  for Major Brand. He is a wonder. 
Up at 5.30 & doing Grand Rounds  at midnight, strict to a degree,  but so reasonable & gentlemanly  about it all. They are erecting great mess  rooms for us all. It looks as as if there will be plenty of room. The nights are fairly cold & about  every other morning there is  a mist which clears up quickly
Fruit is fairly cheap  I have bought  good sized sweet oranges 4 for  a half piastre, Dates 1 piastre a pound  figs & apples about Adelaide prices  & water melons of 16 pounds 5 piastres. We have only got a third of  our back pay so far which  keeps us from sneaking into  Cairo oftener than that we would  like to. We are only to get 2/-  a day while in Egypt. After being on guard we do not  go out with the parade but have  the morning on quartermasters  fatigue, getting stores from the  depot. As they are not working  our horses yet, we use native  trollies & camels with a soldier  in charge of each one. It is  great fun. We have picked up  a few arab Arabic words & with the help of a few forcible  Australian expressions manage  to keep the niggers from going  too slowly. It is good fun riding  the camels back. The afternoon  we have to ourselves. I was on  this Wednesday so a couple of  us went into Cairo on a couple  some passes we had secured  the previous evening on guard.
We didn't have much money  but managed to enjoy ourselves. I saw a most wonderful of  wardrobe  at a Greek art & curio dealer's. It belonged to the late Khedives father  the Johnny who bankrupted the  country. It is beautifully carved  in Arabic stile & inlaide with  ivory It is all in movable bits fastened  with wood. This is to prevent warping  through the extremes of temperature  in this country. The price is £200. There were all sorts of china  Japanese art & Arabian art, everything  of the very best work & all expensive 
You would have gone mad if  you had been there. The Greek  was very interesting He was well  educated & had been through  the Balkan war. His father had  the shop before him. The Khedive  & all the princes, Lord Kitchener,  & lots of European and Eastern  potentates were customers of  his. There are lots of curio  shops where they sell mummies,  scarabs & everything connected  with ancient Egypt.  The Museum of Egyptian Antiquities  is a wonderful place I believe,  but I haven't had time to go  through it yet. I even haven't  climbed the Pyramids. I may  go up next Sunday. Everywhere  I go I can't help thinking how  much I want you to be here  to see it all with me. We will  have to manage to visit Egypt  to-gether somehow. The sunrises & sunsets are gorgeous. It is useless trying to  describe them. I never was  good at descriptions, but even a poet would fail at this.  It is heartrending about the  letters. Nearly 2 months since we left Fremantle & not a letter  yet. I know there are 7 on the  way somewhere, but goodness  knows where they are. We  are told we will get the Orsova  mail Tuesday, that is one direct  from Australia. The previous  mails are probabably on their  way from or to London.  To-day Egypt was proclaimed a  British possession. There was  to have been a grand parade of  troops but which we hear has  been postponed. The papers have  not been saying much about it.  I expect we will have a review  when Sir George Reid & the N.Z.  High Commissioner arrive. 
Sunday 20th. There has been no  excitement about the Proclomation  & the appointment of the new Sultan  The only trouble likely to arise  is from the Nationalist Party  & a section of the Liberalists. As the most  dangerous of them have been  cleared out of the country &  their propoganda not being popular nothing is to be seen of  any dissatisfaction.  I went into Cairo yesterday & had a  stroll round Old Cairo & other places  we had not seen before. One long  street in Old Cairo was quaint, a  cross between an Arabian bazaar  & a semi modern street. It was quite  Eastern. Every decription of shop was  there, a little larger & better than  the Arabian bazaar shops. We were  near a school when the boys were  coming out. What a picture they made  in their loud European suits &  fezs. The educated Egyptian looks  very respectable, some dark & some fair. I have seen some that would pass for fair Europeans. We had  a look at some Art Curio shops  in the centre of the European quarter.  I could have spent a hundred  pounds in five minutes & not  regretted. The finest & gaudiest  silks; brassware you couldn't describe;  gilded silver charms, necklets & curios;  exact imitations of ancient princesses  charms in the Egyptian museums.  Lotus blooms and scarabs in the most  perfect enamelware. Ash trays  of beaten brass in Egyptian hieraoglyphics  & Arabic; lamps, tea sets, coffee sets  & everything you could think of  in brassware that beat any Benares  ware you ever saw. I can quite  see where my back pay is going.  Great joy this morning. There  is to be a mail to-morrow  from England, the first lot that  left Australia after us. Then  another that left 3 weeks ago,  on Tuesday. I wont receives them until after this weeks mail  closes. In Cairo yesterday we saw a girls  school out for a drive in a  bus. It was latticed right up & you could  only see the tops of their heads. There  were all  Egyptian  with their veils. How would you  like to go to school in Cairo? I have forgotten when the birthdays  are. Let me have a full list will  you? I am sending you a paper  with the announcement of the  Protectorate, they should be worth  keeping. There was to have been  some swearing in ceremony this  morning. I don't know whether any  Australian troops were taking part.  Eileen dear, it is so lonely. When  I go into Cairo I can't get it out of  my head thinking how you would  love to see everything with me.  I thought I would get over it but it  is getting worse.  Goodnight darling Your ever loving Tom.