
Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte
Rank: Private
Date: 3 January 1915
Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt
Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade
Nationality: Australian

Text:


Mena Camp. Cairo.
 January 3rd, 1915.
 My Dear Sweetheart, I have left writing to you until Sunday afternoon this week. We have had a busy week, no holiday on New Years Day, Sir Geo Reids review & the new company formations. No Australian letters are to hand. I am not surprised as from your 5 Nov. letter I gather that no mail was to leave the following week. I had a double surprise however in letters from Stewart & Aunt Nellie or Eleanor or whatever her name is, Mrs Dick Champion I mean. She wrote a general letter & very kindly offered to send anything I wanted in the way of socks, body belts etc. Thanks to you I have everything I can possibly want though. It is a very nice letter. She mentions that Mr & Mrs Fallon called before leaving in the 'Osterley' Here is an extract from Stewarts letter 'I'm shortly going to desert & make for a 
cavalry regiment....I can't stick being out of the biggest battle in history.... what about your half section, has he gone too?" not a word about the last line to anybody. I wish I had half his warlike spirit. He is very bitter against the rebel Boers & German atrocities. I like Stewart, though if we had been contemporaries a century or so ago I would have been his deadliest enemy. Well let me see what I can tell you about the weeks doings. Sir Geo Reid reviewed the one half of the Division on Wednesday & the remainder including the 10th on Thursday. The 8 or 9 thousand made some show I can tell you. We formed up in close order while he made a short speech. We then marched past in column of route (fours) & did it very well, so they told us. The new General commanding the Aust. & N.Z. Divisions was there. Burwood is his name I think. This appointment is interesting as they make us an Army Corps though 
the total 30,000 is only about half the usual strength of a British one. This points to special work away from the front. It may possibly mean Palestine. The Turks seem to have got themselves into a muddle & biding our time a chance might come of annexing Palestine bloodlessly. Settling it with Jews from Britain & Russia would possibly be a popular move. Of course all this is purely surmise. I know no more than you what the intentions of the authorities are. On New Years Eve we had some fun 'Lights out' blew at 10:15 as usual & everything was quiet. About 11.30 one or two tents collapsed on their occupants & the band started to quietly assemble. At midnight there was a tremendous burst of music from all over the camp. More tents collapsed and down went the canteen tent. The [[niggers]] inside were moaning in a most heartrending
way when it started to shake. Just before it finally subsided one ran outside frantically yelling 'Poleece Poleece'. We started off on a procession with the band, armed with every conceivable piece of metal capable of making a row Along the main road (named Canberra Road) we marched, picking up bands & half clothed soldiers until we must have been 2000 strong. At each battalion we would halt & play 'Auld Lang Syne' joining hands all round. In the bright moonlight some of the figures were looked fearful & wonderous wild in nothing but their short shirts. Our drum major was a 6 ft 6 Queenslander who wielded a 10 ft flagpole without regard to instruments heads or shins. Right along the road we wandered down to the Artillery lines & Light Horse gathering fres reinforcements & dropping those whose spare clothing was not proof against the cold the officers would come out & wish us a 'Happy New Year' & join in the 'Auld Lang Synes' then on to the hospital at Mena House to give the patients & General a treat. All the instruments not legitimate kept quiet there, which the patients and General, no doubt appreciated We got back to our lines about 2 o'clock Don't conclude from this description that it was a shickers parade. Ninety five per cent were cold sober. Those who had had a drop were just in the right state to keep us amused New Years day we started on the new Company formations. There are only 4 companies now instead of eight Major Beevor, Captains Jacob, Herbert & Oldham have the commands & the other four captains are seconds in command Each company is divided into 4 platoons under a subaltern & platoon sergeant & each platoon into four sections under a non. com. It is much easier for field work but harder for drill. We still have Hosking for subaltern in No 1 Platoon Sergeant Henwood is Platoon Sergeant while Jack Gordon is section commander & still retains his stripes. We joined in with F Company so Captain Redburg is second in command & Lieuts. Gordon Holmes & Talbot Smith have charge of Nos. 3 & 4 Platoons. Dennis Jones, Rhodes, Crowhurst & Dukien all Adelaide Rowing Club boys are in No 3 Platoon. The address is now. No 1 Platoon, A Company; 10th Infantry, 3rd Brigade; First Australian Division, Egypt The sections are only half the size now and our old tent at Morphettville forms No 1 Section with a couple of other very decent chaps. We will be on Platoon drill for a week or two with a little break at a some short ranges now complete. They put what they call a morris tube in our rifle & small bullets are fired at a hundred yards. I was on Brigade Picquet last night We helped to surround the brigade at 10.30 & were on until 2 1.30. This was because the authorities thought a more than usual had broken camp. We were up before reveille this morning so you can understand I am a bit tired. The camp is getting much more comfortable. The mess houses are completed. There is plenty of room at the tables twice as much as we had on the boat. I am writing now at one. The Y.M.C.A. is complete with and a concert is given nearly every night. At the back of the lines there is quite a native bazaar The two canteens where you can purchase everything in the grocery line, good lemonade at 1¼ bottle which we prefer to waiting half an hour for beer. A haberdashery, drapery, ironmongery & postcard vendors shop combined a native tailor who puts pockets in your trousers & cleans your tunic for a bob each, a fruit shop & two barbers shops, where you get a decent shave for 1/2 piastre, which is much preferable to shaving yourself. Natives wash your clothes for ½ pt. each piece which is better than doing it yourself. I wash handkerchiefs & socks myself as it is the same charge is made for them as for a pair of khaki trousers. We were made happy to day by a present of a tin of chocolate & five cigarettes from the Australians resident in G.B. A large pocket knife with an attached tinopener was also given out. I will post you the chocolate tin next week with perhaps a sample of the chocolate which is the best I ever tasted. Chaps were offering 20 piastres for the tins of chocolate for souvenirs to send home. I went into Cairo on Wednesday I picked up some odd bits of Maltese lace which I believe are genuine I have posted them with some other things. I won't tell you what I paid for them, let me know what you think they are worth. The square thing that looks like a D'Oyley is a handkerchief. The piece of crepe with a brass affair & brow band attached is a thing the lower class of native women wear as shown in the enclosed postcard. It is called a 'Borkom'. They wear it from the time they are 16 or eighteen. The necklet is of gilded silver & Swiss enamel. It is an exact imitation of one worn by an ancient princess. I will find out all about it when I go into the museum where the original is. The tiny mummy case which opens is rather novel I thought. They were all very cheap. Cairo only wakes up properly at midnight so several of us wanted to see what it was like. We went to the 'Kursaal' a sort of Tivoli show where you can smoke & order drinks everywhere. It The show is on from 9.30 to 11.30 A . matinee is held from 6.30 till 8. We had supper at a swell French Restaurant where girls in evening dress dance up & down the aisle at intervals. Any of the diners can join in. After supper we had a look through a couple of Dancing Halls. It is quite public. A lot of officers were present so we kept in the background. I am doubtful if we would have gone into the foreground if they hadn't been there. Cairo is a naughty place alright. After a stroll through the bazaars we came home. It has been announced that Church is optional. Those who don't want to go fall out at the parade & have to clean up the lines. This morning the Major got a shock. The whole of the old A. Company fell out. He was left with only a few of the new half of the company. It took us exactly 5 minutes to clean up. I am not resigned about the letters yet. It seems dreadful that I haven't heard anything practically, written since we left Australia. I wish I had never joined. Well I suppose it is no use running your head against a brick wall, but I do wish I could be in Adelaide if for a day only. I do hope you are not not worrying dear. There is no danger it is not that that hurts but I long to see you, feel you, hug you, to kiss you. I would make a wonderful fuss over you now. Well we are up against it, so the less  I we worry the better. All the more wonderful reunion. Thats the toast 'Here's to the Re-union' Goodnight Darling Your own loving boy Tom.