Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte
Rank: Private
Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt
Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade
Nationality: Australian

Text:


9 days before  Mothers Birthday C3 40,000 My Dear Eileen I believe there is to be a mail in  few days time. With the strict  censorship it seems to reduce letters  to a bald statement of 'all is well'  I heard they are even cutting out  the dates. The O.Cs of each company  do the censoring whether there  is any more I can't say. If they are going to treat us always  as they have lately with mails  we will be in for a good time.  This is the third that has left  within a week. I have been sleeping in pyjamas  for a week & I found they take  as much getting used to as sleeping  in your clothes. No mails yet. The last letters I received  were the ones I acknowledged in  No15. We are expecting something this week. I think I will number these  censored letters C1, 2 & 3 so as not  to confuse them with the carbon  ones. There is nothing further to report yet.  Everything is going along quietly  & well. The last couple of days I have  been doing something the same  as at Aden. It is practically  the same crew. This morning  we were ashore for a couple  of hours at one of the villages  You never saw such a pictur-  esque lot of clothes. Trousers  reaching to the knee al very  with yards of material between  the legs, blue stockings &  primitive rawhide sandals Goat skin coats the rough tanned  leather outside & the fur inside  were in great evidence. So  was the picturesque Greek  waistcoat that overlapps  like a triangle. Of course  there were plenty dressed  in ordinary European clothes.  We went inside a [redacted]  rather well decorated. There didn't seem  to be any seats. I don't know  whether the congregation have  to stand. The women have  a very fine type of feature  clear chiselled  & all very similar The chief occupation seems   to be farming. Dozens of  windmills are to be seen  round the bay. They have.

Tom.