Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte
Rank: Private
Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt
Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade
Nationality: Australian

Text:


have been as near death as they are ever likely  to be.  There is nothing to notice in any  altered demeanor in the men except that they  seem a bit alter more light hearted.  Of course  our individual chances fill our minds  foremost but when they are spoken about  it is always in a joking spirit.  Personally  I feel exactly like I used to on the morning  of any important boat race.  Perhaps when  we are creeping through the scrub or waiting  to land the reality of our risk will come home  to us  Blackburn & Jose have gone on the battle cruiser.  Smith is not a scout now but will carry a flag  to show the men of war where we are.  Fisher will  be a connecting file so Stokes & I will be the only  ones of the old half dozen with the Coy.  It is satisfying to know that Mjr Hurcombe  will be back in charge of the supports.  All lights will be out to-night so I will have  to close this up so as to get make sure of  getting it in safe hands.  I wrote you a really (last letter for a while) yesterday  [*C11.*]  It may only go the same time as this but there  is always the chance of this not reaching your 


Location: Mena Camp, Cairo.  Tuesday  Date: February 23, 1914.   My Darling Little Wife,  What a day oh what a day. Think,  10 letters & 7 6  papers to-night!  I can' t realise  it.  And your wonderful letter  It has  been well worth waiting a fortnight for  It is now just after 9 and it has been was  announced 2 minutes ago that a mail  is being closed for Australia at 10 - a  French special I suppose.  So don't expect  anything much.  I will have to leave answering your  letter until later in the week  The letters were from you, & from Feo,  Linda, Mother, Jack, Miss Hutchison,  Frank Gunn, Cecil Oswald & Syd Middleton.  The papers were 6 Mails from Feo. which came  altogether, but which he said in his  letter were posted each week, and a Bulletin  from someone whose writing I can't recognise  There are hundreds of Bullys about all  with that famous cartoon.  Well to get on to the most exciting  news.  We are off within a fortnight  Where to I cant tell.  The Brigadier wouldn't  say & they evidently want us to believe at 10 to-night  We all land together in the wee  sma' oors on a spot near very close to where I have been  tipping.  The plan as much as we know of it  & can guess is a marvel of ingenuity & strategy  I hope to be able to tell you about it in No 20.  There is no denying the fact that we will be on  an extremely dangerous job  With great luck  they may not discover us before morning  & th Let us hope so.  The knowledge we have  of the positions of the batteries & trenches  is remarkable  It fills you with astonishment  If the men of war settled all the batteries before we  land it would give away our intentions; so  we have to settle a few of them with the bayonet  before dawn.  A Coy being in reserve to the 10th  won t see much of this unless the other Coys are  hard pressed.  We are steaming along at only  7 or 8 knots. the Brigade boats being in line  escourted by 1/2 doz O.G. destroyers & the Swiftsure  They are careful for fear of submarines.  Y A person dropped on this boat without previous  knowledge would never hazard a guess that  by this time to-morrow the passengers would 
it is France but I have my doubts  The news came yesterday evening.  Of course there was excitement and  cheers & bands  The 9th & 11th are to go  Saturday in advance the rest to follow  within a week or fortnight. There are  three four places we might go to.  The Persian  Gulf , Syria or Palestine , France , or England  I hardly think the former, though we have  heard nothing from that force for some time  which must mean that they are not  strong enough to take Bag dad or dont  want to , more probably the latter.  Syria  I hardly think because of something Major  Brand said when lecturing another company  the other day.  It was about the recent  Canal engagement; when we had a  chance to settle the Turks completely  but were ordered not to do, for political  reasons.  I will tell you more about it  next letter.  France it may be but they  say we are to be re-equipped which  could be easier done in England as  well as transporting us with the others  To day we have been practising billetting.  Streets lanes houses shops etc were  marked out with flags at a suitable  place near Tigers Tooth and we were 
a couch for many a week or so.  Some more mail came aboard to-day.  A letter from Ron. Morgan was my  quota.  I got a great shock to hear read that  he heard Gordon Campbell was engaged  The sly beggar.  I wonder if its true?  I will enclose the letter but I daresay  you will find it very hard to decipher  he is such a bad writer.  Ron is one of  the whitest men I know.  I will try & add some more to this to-morrow  & that will be the last in this book.  I am  taking the first duplicate book with me to  write on the back of the carbon copies.  I have  made a little cloth writing case that will fit  in my haversack without taking up much room  Saturday afternoon 24thApr.  Here we are on our  way to the spot that is going to be a play a large  factor in the result of the war.  We left Mudros  Bay at 2.20 & are due at Tenados or Imbros about  8.  C & B Coys with the regimental scouts were taken  aboard the Prince of Wales this morning.  The rest  of the battalion will be transferred to 2 TB.Ds   marched in.  There was a turnout  at the alarm and lectures.  It wasnt  sh  interesting.  We are to get boots &  deficiencies in equipment to-morrow  Well I am glad we are to be on the  move though I should like to see  more of Egypt.  But we came to fight  & thats what we all want to do, at  lease we say so, though personally I  would jump for joy if peace was  to be declared to-morrow.  There is nothing but indignant discussions  everywhere about Beans letter.  I haven't  had time to more than glance at  it.   It is no doubt true in the main  but told in a way that seems exaggerated.  No doubt the first outline came  from Headquarters.  I have had several  discussions with old soldiers & I think  I express the general opinion of those  entitled to compare, that the troops  behaviour, considering all circumstances,  is in so better than South Africa &  might be every easily much worse.  The temptations are far greater,we have  been in one place for 11 weeks and  taking a broad view based on a knowledge  of human nature things are better 
We will be transferred to T B D's & other  men of war up there somewhere get in  as close as possible & then into gigs  to be towed by tugs ashore.  Wont it be  eerie in the dark creeping towards an enemy.  What tricks our nerves will play with us.  and then in the morning with their  artillery harassing us & its our ships screetch  guns flying overhead.  I wonder what I  will feel like.  If we run up against the  Turks at night it will mean the bayonet  no firing at night.  Well we are in  for it so its no good worrying.  If I get  through alright well & good if not well  its the Buddhist's Nirvana for me &  you bear the sorrow.  That's the cruellest  part of war those that are left.  Still even  the greatest sorrow heals in time. If it  didn't what an unlivable world this would  be.  Here I am indulging in morbid  thoughts when I ought to be asleep probably  the last sleep I will get in pyjamas on  
than I expected.  You needn't be frightened  about contagion.  Any infectious case  is isolated immediately & we all have  our own blankets which nobody else  uses.  Every little while there is what  we call a short arm parade when the  doctor examines everyone.  We had  it at Morphettville :  It is not really  necessary as anyone who tried to  escape isolation would soon be  dealt with by his tent mates.  I can quite understand the horror with which  Bean's letter would be read with by  narrow-minded females , but if they  only knew of what happens in their  own country they would get a shock.  Then a gain these things always read  much worse in cold print.  Anyway  I don't think it will have the desired  effect which evidently is to try & make  things better with the following contingents.  They will soon find it is  exaggerated in the main & there  they wont believe any of it.  Now as to the commissions.  We  feel very wild about Stokes letting  this be misunderstood all over Adelaide  though he denied it to-night. 

night. I dont think I will risking anything  in saying this much. The 3rd Brigade has  been selected to act as a covering party for  the landing on Gallipolli Peninsula. It is  looked upon as a high honour. B&C B&D coys  will be in front with A & D coy acting as  supports. There will be a battalion each side  of us, & one in reserve. Right ahead will be regimental  scouts who include Blackburn Fisher &  Smith. I missed it through being in the  boats crew & knowing nothing about it.  That is not to say I would have been one  of them mind. The brigade's job will be  to land, go inland a bit, entrench & hold on  If we are unlucky & are discovered it will  go hard with us. If we hold on in the  face of much opposition we will make a  name worth having. But the unfortunate  part is that there won't be too many left  to share the glory. "The path of honour leads  but to the Grave. " How's that? I never dreamt  I would I would get so sentimental over a job  like this.
There is nothing further official.  I must say I haven't given up hope altogether.  I haven't seen Rand from the 3rd  since I last wrote. I went over to-night  but he was not about. At any rate  you will have heard before this letter  reaches you if it eventuates.  I have been reading Sladens book  'The Curse of the Nile'. It gives a  very fine description of the Battle  of Omdurmann (accent on the  last syl.) The bits about Cairo are very  interesting to. The Maxwell mentioned  as having charge of a brigade is  our own Sir John Maxwell in  charge of all the Egy troops in Egypt  to-day.  Everybody is well. My cold has gone  & I am feeling in great nick. I have  hardly been stiff at all after the  game of lacrosse on Sunday. We are  trying to get up a match for Thursday  S.A. V Victoria & NSW and for Saturday  Australia V England. This early movement  may alter things somewhat though.  If we go to France we will be on lines of  com. etc for some time I think. There  goes the 'Lights Out' Good night Darling  Yours ever Tom 
