Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte
Rank: Private
Date: 3 March 1915
Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt
Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade
Nationality: Australian

Text:


My Dear Little Wife   H.M.T.S. Ionian  Wednesday March 3, 1915.
  It is difficult to know what to do about   letters now they will all be censored & just what  we will be allowed to say I don't know. I loathe  writing letters for the censor more than you  do. There always seems to be nothing to say  I think I will fill in everything I can in  this letter from time to time & have it posted   at the first opportunity uncensored  Well we found out yesterday we are bound   for Lemnos an island 60 miles from  the Dardanelles Apart from hearing it   is a Greek possesion with  13000 inhabitants mostly Greek, I know   absolutely nothing.  We left Alexandria at midday yesterday.  I believe we should have left before but  they did not finish taking all the wood aboard  We are not accompanied by any other boats  She is an awful tub of a boat & pretty dirty  I believe she has been transporting Indian  troops & landed some at Port Said before coming  on to Alexandria The accomodation is very  limited & the food is not as varied as the  Ascainius but plentiful. There are no hammocks which is a blessing as  they are a nuisance. We are allowed  nearly everywhere & I have had a good position  on the boat deck to sleep in the two nights   There are an insufficient number of   mess tables to go round so some have  to eat their meals sitting on their kit bags  nobody grumbles for a wonder. not  that it would do any good but soldiers  always grumble even when they are  well treated. It is only until tomorrow  though, so it won't be as bad as it might  We have a great pontoon on board with  a stern that drops like a tailboard  for landing horses so we evidently wont  land at a wharf. Exactly what we will  do I can't tell. The only thing I can guess  is that Lemnos will be a base for  operations against Dardanelles.  We may be there all the time & never see   the Turks.  When leaving Alexandria we passed the 'north   Carolina' an 'U.S.a.' cruiser. Their band   played the national anthem. The decks  were lined & they gave cheer after cheer  & dipped their flag while we replied.  The sea has been very calm & the boat  hardly rocks. 
Friday March 5  Here we are lying at anchor off Lemnos  waiting for Greece to declare war at least  that is the rumour. The harbour is splendid  Half a dozen transports and as many   men of war makes you realise that there  is such a thing as war.  We arrived yesterday evening after a  wonderfully calm voyage. Yesterday we  passed lots of islands of all of which  seemed unihabitated, some of them only  rocks. As we approached here there were  lots of men of war knocking round us  looking very ghostly in the pale moonlight   with not a light showing.  I could can   make out what look like a couple  of battleships or armoured cruisers, a  destroyer, two torpedo boats & a submarine  They have been nearly all on the move  The only other transport I can recognise  is the Suffolk. Evidently the 3rd Brigade  is all here. The island from here looks  a mixture of rocks & dou grassy downs  a village of about 50 houses lies  abreast of us.  There is higher land  further back. If the rumour on the   top of the page is true & Greece does not                         declare war by tomorrow night we will have to move out I suppose.  We hear no reliable  news at all. I dont know even if we   w are intended to land here. We don't know  what is in the wind, what the next 24 hours  will see bring forth. The brigadier went  off in a pinnace this morning to the  flagship.  She got ran aground on a little mud  island much to every ones amusement  & another pinnace had to haul them off  I have an idea Lemnos is mentioned   in ancient Greek history.  Wasn't some  naval engagement waged near here?  No-body seems to know anything about it  Didn't Paul wander round this way too?  It is a great disadvantage not having  any books to refer to. I wish the Adelaide  Public Library was handy.  I have been amusing myself by mending  socks & clothes sewing on buttons &  greasing boots.  I have had my rifle to  pieces & got all the sand out a job that  took me a couple of hours. Apart from  examination of kit rifles there have been  no any parades. There is a great shortage of  books but we manage to fill in time  somehow.  Saturday night still here I believe Greece has  leased this island to Great Britain. 
This sounds most likely,  A severely censored mail closed to-day.  We were not allowed to mention anything  about the war where we were or even if   we had left Egypt.  I sent you a note  from which you may be able to gather  where we are & that all is well.  I also  wrote one to mother & Feo & a post card to  Linda.  I don't know how it is going  back.  The 9th landed to-day They are going to  bivouac for 3 days. The two Colonels tossed   up for which battalion was to land & as  usual 'Flossie' lost.  We are to go ashore   for exercise every other day I believe.  This is a beautiful harbour, completely  landlocked & evidently very deep & roomy  as there is an armoured Cruiser a French  Cruiser 3 destroyers 3 submarines & a  torpedo boat besides 7 or 8 transports  Three arrived this morning from England  with some Territorials aboard. I heard  there were some marines also aboard  another transport. One of the men of war  arrived from the Dardanelles to-day  The information comes passes through several   hands so it is sure to be garbled  The forts seem to be difficult to completely capture as the Turks keep bringing up  field guns & preventing any parties landing party  The rumour goes that a force of 500 marines  landed in two parties  One was cut up  terribly & only 8 returned  This seems to  be the only one of many rumours that  is reliable.  Apart from this we have  heard no war news whatever.  It looks to me as if they will make  this a base for an army operating against  the Dardanelles.  Whether we will see  any actual fighting or not is hard to   say.  There was one amusing incident when   the 9th were disembarking.  The ships   boats were in a leaky condition through   the sun.  One started to fill when the  men got in.  An officer tried to make   a cheap hero of himself by gesticulating  in the boat & telling the men to keep  calm as every thing was alright.  The  men were treating it as a joke while  the officer seemed the most excited.  Of course they were all quickly on board   again with nothing more than wet feet.  The weather has been lovely, most   temperate neither too hot nor cold.  There no are not the extremes in temperature 
we had at Meona  either.  There were are a lot of little towers on both  sides of the harbour we couldn't at first  make out.  I find they are windmills of   the Dutch style.  There are several hamlets  round about.  A bumboat was out  alongside this morning & quickly sold out   of cigarettes, matches, biscuits & walnuts.  They could speak English well, I suppose  most likely they had been sailors.  We have all been paid 30/- each pay   how long this is to last us I don't know    I rather like this idea of a diary letter  If I leave a letter until post day I don't seem   to be able to get half the filling.  Jotting down  every other day or so, seems to lengthen it  out though it must seem stale reading when  you get it.  I have exhausted every thing   to-night so I will say goodnight darling.  Oh another thing that is difficult is to   find new love phrases.  I don't like repeating  the same old ones.  I think I will have to   try & get that book on 'How to write Love Letters'  Sunday night   Nothing fresh has happened.  The chief interests of the day seem to be the  various rumours that float round.  The  inventive mind of the Australian soldier  is superb.  I will give you to-days 'latrinograms' 
Island is to be a base for 100,000 troops (2)We will  be] here from 4 to -6 weeks (3)The force is to be   made up of English Regulars, Territorials  Troops from Malta, Marines & the Australian  & NZ  Corp.  The (4)Lemnos is claimed by both Greece   & Turkey. G.B. has taken possession at present   & will hand it over to Greece at the end of   the war. (5)Half the 10th is to go for a route  march to-morrow. (6)The Allies troops in   Belgium & France have been driven  back 50 miles. (7) The rumour about the  500 marines is exaggerated.  Whatever is one to do.  You can never   trace the origin of these 'officials'  The  officers are really worse than the men.  The admiral came aboard for a few   minutes to-day. Who he is I can't say.  There is much more room on board now  the 9th has gone. They have taken all their  tents.  This looks as if rumour No2 is right.  There is no parson on board so no church  Parade to-day.  Disinfecting troop decks instead  This is because of the presence of some species  of livestock.  Luckily I have not been inhabited  yet.  I am anxious to get ashore, I scent  pages of descriptive matter or attempts at  it.  Oh well another good night I suppose 
Dear it is getting a long time now  I often feel wild with myself for coming  away.  What wouldn't I give for a week   in Adelaide now.  It seems so lonely to  me sometimes inspite of all the new  interests, but what must it be to you.  What a score will be mounted for that  reunion. Goodnight Dearest.  Monday Night  They gave us half an hours' to  warning for a mail to-day.  I was just   able to scribble a few lines on any MCA P.C.  From it you may gather rumours Nos 1 & 2  A & B corps went ashore for a route march  to-day I did not go as I was on duty in  a boats crew taking them ashore & bringing  them back again. They passed through  two hamlets & were greatly impressed   with the cleanliness & the fertility of the soil  The Greek inhabitants speak Arabic as well  & the troops were greatly surprised to be   greeted with 'Saida' pronounced Say ēe da  (Good-day) There are two Arabic words  that will sure to be Australianised when we get   back Saida & Imshi (equivilant to 'get  out') This latter word is used to inferiors  when their presence is not required  A great battleship came in to-day which  some of the sailors said was the 'Queen  Elizabeth' that wonderful new creation
with the 16 inch guns that was able  to fire on the Dardanelles forts whilst  a mile out of range.  Some Royal Marine Infantry were aboard  to-day but I did not see them.  From  those that were speaking to them I gather   that rumours 1, 2, 3 & 7 are probably true  Some of the marines were ref those referred  to in 7.  About 50 had been killed.  I did a bit of washing to-day As I could  got plenty of hot water from the winches  it was easy work.  I have overhauled all  my kit & done all the mending possible.  It seems strange as there is nothing I   can do.  It is the first time in my life  I have not had something that wanted   doing.  It is a most unsatisfactory feeling  I don't think I will let it occur again.  About the war finishing in May.  I am going to alter my opinion to June  The Spring army will be later getting  to work than I originally thought. The  A  sergeant of the marines on board to-day  thought it was sure to end by June.  He had been fighting in France before  coming here.  He witnessed that famous   charge of the London Scottish; but I did  not hear of his comments. I have just finished reading a book   of Warwick Deeping's 'The Rust of Rome'   Have you read it? I was neither disappointed  nor enthusiastic  " One passage is worth  quoting "And by agnosticism he understood,  not that grotesque guy dressed up in misrepresentations  by theologians & pelted with paradoxical  squibs, but a sincerity of mind that comes  from fearless & cleansing thought."  You needn't read that paragraph out to  the others.  I was wondering how you got  on with some paragraphs in my letters;  whether you ever started on some, that to   say the least, would startle the hearers.  I can fancy what mother would look like,  & wouldn't Freda have a lot to say.  What would you do, flee or blush & face  it out.  Wouldn't it be terrible?  It is late now & I have to be at the  gangway at 6.30am. So once more  Goodnight my little girl.  Wednesday Evening  I thought of quite a lot  to write about during the last 48 hours  but most of it seems to have slipped my   memory.  I have struck a bonzer job. You remember   that crew at Aden for rowing the Colonel   around, well it has been called into requisition again for the use of the  Brigadier Colonel & Staff & the Colonel &  Adjutant  It is practically the same.  Rhodes & I are  the only oarsman.  The six  others are all men of warsmen. It has  been placed in orders and we are free  from every other duty. That means  we miss parades, guards & fatigues of which  there are plenty. Sergeant Tomlinson is   in charge. We have about 2 trips a day  & the rest of the time to ourselves.  Yesterday  & today we were ashore for a few hours.   The Greeks come down to the landing places  with their wares in the shape of nuts, oranges,  Turkish Delight, cigarettes, milk, honey, butter  & matches.  We had quite an amusing   time with them You never saw sh such  an assortment of wearing apparel The round  fustian cap was in great evidence so were  those funny trousers reaching to the knees  with yards & yards of spare cloth between   the legs.  Some had primitive rawhide  sandals others old boots.  One pair of dapper   American yellow button boots looked very comical  with in conjunction with greenish khaki  puttees with a gr red border hem and  white striped blue trousers & goatskin   coat, the fur inside & tanned leather outside most had blue stockings showing  beautifully shaped calves. The umbiquitous  donkey was also in evidence.  They could  speak very little English, the natives I  mean.  One had been in Egypt and America  He knew more Arabic than we.  They are  starting to charge a bit for stuff but it  is our own fault for it is only human  nature to get the all you can if the buyer  is fool enough to pay it.  The tower windmills are peculiar affairs  I cant   very well describe them  They are something  like this  [*hand drawn picture of a windmill*]  The little triangular patches at the end of the wings are  like little canvas jibs.  They are all used   for grinding corn & and flour.  There must be   hundreds on the island.  It was quite pleasant to loll about the  grass  You see there was none in Egypt  Every inch of land was cultivated so it  was really the first grass we had been  on since leaving Australia.  There is a kind of cognac made on the  island. It hasn't an unpleasant taste  & is very mild.  By the bye the Colonel has  come to light with a pint of beer both days which goes very well.  There was a typed sheet of war news posted  up to day covering from the last week.  It proved rumour No 6 on page 64 wrong  & 7 correct.  It mentioned that owing to   the situation in the Dardanelles the troops  at present training in North Africa  were to be ready to leave at a moments   notice.  Well all the troops there will not  be used.  Perhaps the Aust 2nd contingent   may be but there is bound to be a   garrison kept there.  I believe a force  of 40000 French will arrive within three  weeks With 40000 Australasians & 20000  various the rumoured force of 100000 would be   made up. I don't think there is much   in this rumour though  A I had a very interesting chat to one  of half a dozen sailors last night.  They have come aboard from the Lord  Nelson to man a steam furnace leant  to tow the boats ashore.  This chap was  a real cockney & a fair nut. It is  the Lord Nelson we mistook for the   Queen Elizabeth which came in today  The 'Nellie' took a very prominent part   in the bombardment of the Dardanelles  The Tar told me a lot about it.
Eighteen forts had been demolished when they left. He was one of the crew landing  the Marines that were cut up. This fort had been settled some days previously but bad weather had prevented any landing party. In the meantime the Turks & Germans had taken full advantage of the time  & entrenched themselves very strongly  besides having snipers in every available cover, ruins etc. Evidently the reconnoitering seaplanes missed this. or the Marines couldnt see where the firing came from even A lot of their shells dont explode & the firing is not very good. The 'Nellie' (nickname for the Lord Nelson) had no difficulty in silencing a fort with 14 inch guns though her biggest are 12 inch. He was particularly funny describing this fort. "All at wance them  Turks stahrted commin' aht of that fort  in hundreds rahght on top of a hill. We gave em a salvo at abaht 8000 & Gawd blimy, when the dust cleared we had shot the ground they was on away." Somebody asked why they came out of the fort! 'Guess it was gettin too  blaming hot in there' The Marines caught one Turk gouging out the eyes of one of the dead. They charged him before he got away, stood him up against a wall & literally shot pieces  out of him. Two mine sweepers have been settled. They are only trawlers & drag for mines with wire ropes. Naturally they take a tremendous risk. There are half a  dozen in harbour here. A French General arrived yesterday & inspected the camp of the 9th We have started Bridge again, There is to be no stake. I ought to be something of a player when I get back. All our horses are going ashore to-morrow We have about 40 on board. No word of the 2nd or 1st Brigade yet nor of any mails. I have had to rearrange my writing kit I can get this book with a few postcards  & paper in my haversack nicely. Your photo is in wonderfully good order. The cardboard covers of the book keep it from getting bent. Three of the corners are gone a little but the photo is as undamaged as the day I got it. Do you remember how shy you  were about showing the proof? The tissue envelope I still have. I like the hazy glimpse  I can get of you through it. I always have it on the back of the previous page when I am writing. I never get tired of looking at it. I am afraid I have neglected  the profile one. That is in my kit bag with your letters. I don't like it half as well as the one Freda called affected. The best light to look at it is artificial It looks most natural then. I feel awfully ashamed I haven't had a decent photo to send you yet Thursday March 11th We have had quite a pleasant  day. This morning we took the Colonel & party ashore near the 9th camp for a court martial. I was quite surprised to find round a little point a tiny jetty. Quite  a decent sized village. We can see part of it from the Ionian but most is hidden by the little hill that runs out to the point. The 9th camp is on the hill The heads were away for several hours so after we had lunch we had a stroll. A well made road led from the jetty winding through the group of 50 or so houses that formed the village. There were two or three  cafes where you could get Turkish coffee, cognac, a dark sour weak wine, rum & English lager beer. Needless to say we sampled the Tennants Lager & found it very refreshing. Most of the houses are two storeyed & well build of stone. A peculiar shaped tile forms the roof. The tiles are semicircular & are laid like this [[?]] There was the same variety of dress. The women were all of a clear cut similar type & wore the white cloth round their heads ears & chins looking for all the world like a corpse with the chin tied up. The old women are nearly as good looking as the young. Babies were very numerous A finely built Greek Orthodox Church  looked magnificient among these rural surroundings Some of us went inside The Greek priest in his funny cap & gown gave us a taper each which we lit & stuck in an urn containing sand. The thing that one noticed most was the abscence of seats or pews. The interior was richly decorated in blue tints with plenty of well painted panels of the saints. A tall beautifully carved preaching desk (I Forget the correct name) was particularly noticable On a specially carved lecturn was a painting of the Madonna & child that looked very old probably medaeval. ? I don't know what the burning of the tapers signified at anyrate one didn't show our appreciation by placing anything in the alms box which was in a prominent position. The villages are really out of bounds but of course the Colonels crew would be excepted. Over the other side of the hill on the beach below the 9th camp is tiny quaint brick church about 8ft x 12ft by 7ft high. It is evidently dis not in use. A niche in one wall evidently formed the alter. The rafters were very old and wormeaten. There was a little  glass bowl in a bracket with sanctuary  oil & floats in it.  On the other side was  an iron spiked arrangement with bits of  rags on it. I wonder if it is a superstition similar to one often seen in Ireland near wells? The harbour is very busy. Super Dreadnoughts Cruisers, Destroyers, Torpedo boats, Trawlers (for mine sweeping), Submarines, Supply Ships (coal, oil & provisions) Pinnaces & Picquet boats and a dozen or so Transports There are 5 boats for the 3rd Brigade The Ionian, Malda, Suffolk Nizam & Davanah There are 6 'Castle' liners in with Royal Marine Light Infantry & sundry details and a couple of French Transports. When we were ashore we saw a party of Frenchmen with their greenish Khaki blue overcoats & ugly French military caps. War boats are constantly leaving & coming & it is difficult to keep count of them The most noteworthy are the Queen Elizabeth  the Inflexible (of Falkland Island fame) the Lord Nelson, Indominatable & AE2 submarine from Australia. There  is an are two & Admirals a rear & a vice Today the French General & a couple of his staff paid an official visit on board The only gawdy thing about him was his cap all gold & red braidwork & lace fancyfully coloured. His only decoration was the Legion of Honour medal & ribbon which he seemed very proud of. We turned out a guard of honour & the band. Friday March 12 I was called away last night  at 8 when I was writing. We went round to the Brigade boats with orders for the brigade training to-day. When we came back there was a mouthful of whiskey waiting for each of us. A mail left yesterday. I was able to get much more th in than should have by getting Captain Green to censor it instead of my own Coy. Commander. I can't relish Beevor censoring any of my letters. From C3 you may be able to gather that all is well & 40000 French troops are arriving in 3 weeks time. They have to close the mail a day before it leaves on account of the  censoring I noticed it still lying in the  mail room so it may not go for a day or two A couple of large liners in their grey war paint arrived during the night. It looks like the Canadian flag they are flying. A hospital ship, the 'Soudan' also arrived I dont know who is on board or where she comes from. She looks very pretty painted white with a broad green band right round her intersected, with 3 large red crosses on each side. Saturday afternoon Intercepted again last night. This evening now looks like a regular thing. However we dont mind We would sooner be on this game than any other. This morning we took the Brigadier & staff to the 'Frankonia' one of the yesterdays arrivals. She is a large Curnard liner The other big one is the Royal George a Canadian Northern Railway boat. Both have Naval Brigades on board I think this is the branch George & Euthrie belong to. They have a lot of naval reserve men among them. They say about 10 000 are coming here. The last day or two has been a bit cold but not too cold to sleep on deck. The past 3 days the official war communiques have been posted up. Things seem to be progressing in the Dardenelles. The tucker has not been very varied lately. You see the boat was leaving Alexandria Pt Said for England when she was stopped & sent to Alexandria & took us on board next day They had no chance of victualling her properly so bully beef has been our main diet lately. The butter is a bit rancid. To-day for dinner we got quite a surprise with some beautiful rice soup, tender beef & potatoes & bread & jam. The bread is always good freshly baked each night Jam & cheese will be served regularly each other day now. There has been no complaint as most recognise that it is inevitable Thank  goodness the bully has been very good but you get awfully sick of it. A boatload of men got ashore the other night. What for goodness only knows. They got each 10 days field punishment. For two hours each day they are tied up to waggon wheels & spend the rest of the time in the detention room. Naturally dicipline will be very strict now. There are 6 Castleliners in now with marines & naval Brigade men on board All the horses have been taken ashore There is plenty of greenfeed & they seem to be enjoying themselves Sunday Evening I wouldn't have swopped places with the King today. Just think of it We have been all round the  Queen Elizabeth & all over a submarine Right down in her & the B11 at that the ? identical one that made history when she dived under 4 rows of mine & sank that Turkish battleship. And not least of all we have shanken hands with her V.C. Commander & had afternoon tea with her crew everyone awarded the D.S.M. Let  me tell you how it came about. At 2 o'clock the crew had to take the  Brigadier & staff ashore to the 9th Camp. He said he would be ashore an hour or so & had no objection to our pulling out to the 'Eliza' Off we went with Sgt Heritage on whom we picked up as we were moving off. We had a good 3 miles to row & saw  the Agamemnon Inflexible & Lord Nelson steam off. The booms were up on the 'Eliza' & we were frightend we wouldn't be in time. However we got there in time to rowe right round her and gaze aghast at the great  floating mass of armoured steel & guns. What a personification of power she looked. Think of it 8 immense long 15 inch dealers of death capable of throwing a shells weighing a ton, 15 miles On each side forward were 6 - 6 inches & aft 2 each side, 16in all.  Amidships what looked like 4 - 12 inchers. The  immense steel barbettes for the I5s were awe inspiring You couldn't imagine any force piercing them And yet to think that floating fort costing 2 million & its thousand souls could be blotted out by one little mine. War is cruel think of that gigantic engine of destruction throwing its ton shells whe 25,000 yds over hills & reducing forts to rubbish and men to bloody atoms, while 4 miles out of range, neither the weilders not seeing the  effect of their fire nor the defenders where they it came from. There were a lot of men on deck among them about 20 civies (men in civilian clothes) whom we found  to be articifers from the workshops. On the quarter deck the commander paced his constitutional accompanied by an officer while the orderley messenger waited in attendance. The range finding crows nest was an immense affair, roofed, capable of holding 20 men. In an engagement not the only faces  life visible would be the faces of the range finders. We slowly drifted past changing remarks with the crew & then made for a supply ship with two submarines alongside. We had no thought of being able to board the submarines as even in peace times it needs an admirals order to board one. We were invited aboard the supply ship in search of a drink of water & meeting some of the submarine's crew were told the commander might let us aboard if we asked. Up went Sgt Tomlinson & with Australian cheek got what we wanted. We couldn't scramble down the connecting plank quickly enough. The crew of 13 sort of opened their bosoms to us. The conning tower was an elliptical shaped affair only coming to a very narrow point each end. From bow to stern stretched a wire rope supported in the centre by a standard  that kept it above all gear so that a wire rope would offer no obstruction when the submarine was submerged. The periscope was capable of being lowered below this wire for of course the periscope is the only visible object when she is submerged. A ladder led down the conning tower & into the hull as also did one on the deck. Down below was the most interesting little cubby hole. The little room was only about 5 feet in height & about 60 feet in length. The switches wheels & machinery bewilded one. Right forward were the two torpedo tubes surrounded by all the gear that works them. Two long cigars took up a lot of space on the floor. On them were placed bags which overcame the necessity of seating accomodation. [I] The floor forward was the roof of the petrol tank. A neat little electric cooking arrangement took our fancy. In no time they boiled some water & made us tea. I had a regulation navy basin of it. It was easily the most delicious tea I have had since you made that cup with the boiling milk. They cut us sandwich & it seemed as if they couldn't do enough for us. What a fine body of men they looked, clean cut, thin faced looking all with intellectual faces & nothing to say for about themselves. Heroes every one. We couldn't stand it any longer so off we fired question after question This is the disjointed story we were able to drag out of one. 'We were told off to reconnoitre in the Dardanelles & got up as far as Chanak without mishap when the skipper spotted the Turkish battleship. We dived to get a bit closer, guessed the range at 1000 yds & fired. Then they spotted us & we had just time to see her disappear ten minutes after firing & get away as quickly as we could. We were 9 hours under that trip. It made us feel a bit dizzy when we got to the fresh air again but you don't notice it until then." They seemed quite unconcerned about the exploit 'Why' said one 'The last trip up the straights was the toughest'. We were told off to draw the fire of the forts & we did it only too well. A shell lobbed within 20 yds of us with our conning tower above water. Another followed closer before we had time to dive, but we were well under when we heard the third. It was touch & go that time". Another of our crew was able to drag out the following. "The skipper told us we were to get up as far as we could & there were 4 rows of mines to dodge & said 'what about it' 'Where you are game to go we are" we answered, & off we went'. Of course we had a peep at the periscope It gave quite a clear deflection of boats lying ahead. On it are marked lines which enable the commander to tell where the torpedoes are sighting When submerged the only target offered is this tiny tube two inches in diameter Think of the accuracy of that gunner on the Birmingham who picked of the German periscope at half a mile, first shot too. The crew loaded us with magazines a cigarette each to smoke above & several tins of oxtail soup which were pressed on us in spite of our protests that it was robbing them. What was more important still was an invitation to visit them again. This morning we took the ships doctor ashore at the little jetty & having an hour to wait took a stroll into the village again. We penetrated a bit further & found it much more populous. The little narrow lanes wound about in a most perplexing way. We came across the village pump with several clean typed women filling their stone jars. Very picturesque it looked. Soldiers from the 8 French transports now in port have started a little camp quite near the town. About half a mile round the other way the advance company of the Naval Brigade ASC have also started a camp. French soldiers of in every conceivable type of uniform were about. On At the shore nearest the ninth camp a little jetty has been started by the Engineers. Whatever will it be like when the full force of 100000 Australian English & French arrive? 
We did our trip round the brigade boats in 28 minutes early this evening It is time I turned in probably to dream about submarines & Super Dread- noughts & you. Goodnight little girl. Monday  Nothing startling to-day. This morning we took the Brigadier ashore. There was a brigade route march on After coming back we rowed over to a small gunboat whi the 'Hussar' which is acting flagship, for the war news. From there we went to the 9th landing passing a merchantman which that struck a mine in the Bay of Smyrna. Her cargo of wheat was being unloaded into a boat alongside. After landing our passengers we had a swim. The water was too cold to stay in long. The last couple of days have been wonderfully fine the bay as smooth as glass & the sun quite warm in the day time. It has rained twice since we have been here, just short thunderstorms. I would like to know what is going on in the Dardanelles to-day The harbour is clear of men of war with the exception of the 'Swiftsure' (the cruiser with the big cranes for hoisting torpedo boats that picked us up at Aden 3 months ago.) 

the two submarines & the flagship. Even the hospital ship 'Soudan' cleared out yesterday She is attached to the navy. A Russian 5 funnelled cruiser the identical one that we saw at Colombo went out this afternoon. I don't think I mentioned the Blenheim as being in the other day. She is a pre Dreadnought fitted up as a veritable machine shop. She is capable of acting as supply ship to 32 Destroyers. Taking out damaged plates & putting in new ones is right in her line I forgot to tell you yesterday that submarine crews are all voluntary They get 2/6 a day extra, not much of an insurance annuity premium is it? The Australian submarine AE2 was in the other day She ran aground near the entrance & has had to go to Malta to be overhauled. Some of the transports are using great Turkish barges for taking horses ashore I w I wonder if they are captures? The French Foreign Legion is here. No doubt you have heard of them. Once joined you are there for life. A ha'penny a day is the pay & no questions asked where you form I wonder if it is as romantic as novelists paint it. I know there are several Englishmen in it. There is some talk of us running back to Alexandria for water & stores. I hope so. The water they put on yesterday was brackish. You were thirstier after than before drinking. Harry Nott in his condemnation wrote that it was a disgrace to H.M. Transports. Major Oldham was expressing his opinion rather freely yesterday about the Scotch owners, Scotch ship & Scotch food. The captain overheard & took up the defence immediately. The discussion came on to the butter. 'Wh That butter was the finest procurable when it was put aboard' said the captain. 'But how old is the ship' said Mr Oldham. That little village I have tried to describe is Murkos "Mudros" The largest on the island is "Castro" exactly where it lies I can't say. Tuesday  The programme this morning was practising landing under cover of a warships guns. B Coy was the landin covering coy & had to be landed first to hold the position while the others landed. They started at 3.30 a.m. We left with the Brigadier & Staff after they were afloat & were the first to land. It was very dark, the shore not visible until within 100 yds making it very difficult to pick up any direction There are no prominent landmarks round the bay & the boats being anchored forward only, swing round to each change of wind It is most perplexing at night time. I think it was more luck than anything that we struck the right spot. After landing our passengers we came back & met several boatloads wandering about. Just after we got aboard the rain started Only half could have got ashore when it was cancelled. They came back like drowned rats. Naturally the whole thing was a failure which the ships officers expected. To-day has been quite an off day. The crew went over to the flagship for war news. All we got yesterday & to-day concerned the French frontier only. It looks as if things were beginning to move there. The night before last the 'Ameythist' a small cruiser was doing reconnoitering work in the Dardanelles when she was surprised by a battery of howitzers. Twenty three were killed & 14 wounded. One of the 'mouth' class of cruisers is lying in harbour. One of her boilers burst while operating up there & killed 11 men. The battleship we thought was the 'Inflexible' was the 'Agememnon'. In her first engagement some of the ships crew were over on the disengaged side painting blotches. This has a peculiar optical effect [[l ?]] making a difficult target. The shells were falling all around & two men were killed before being all ordered 'under armour'. The tale goes that the skipper got hauled over the coals about it. One of the men killed had a paint brush still in his hand when picked up. We got all this news on our trip this morning I don't know why I am writing it all down It will all be stale by the time it reaches you. However I am to post it I cant imagine I seem to derive a lot of pleasure from just writing to you though I know it will be months before you can get it. For the last 4 nights I have been living or at least sleeping in luxury. The 9th Orderley Room was is one of the smoking rooms. As they are ashore it is not being used. Roy White first told me about it & Rhodes Jones & I bunk on the saddleback cushioned lounges. There is plenty of room & we are not disturbed. I have been doing all the writing one one of the marble card tables. We are envied by all who are in the know. A collier came alongside this morning & delivered water & some preserved vegetables. The tucker has been much better the last couple of days. Wednesday 17th A funny incident happened this morning. About 20 sick (all those in the hospital on board) were being towed ashore by a pinnace. A Greek bum boat was alongside one of the gigs selling fruit The pace increased & the owner let go to pick up the next boat. Somehow or other the Dago got jambed & his boat fully stocked turned turtle. The fellows could hardly pull him out for laughing. At He gave one agonised look at the keel of his boat with matches nuts orange Turkish Delight etc floating round and burst into tears. All the way ashore he tore his hair in real Greek Dago fashion. The climax came when one of the purchasers asked for his tuppence change. He had a hired man aboard but he jumped onto the gig when the boat was filling. He was most unconcerned, smoking his cigarette & gazing round as if it was quite a pleasure trip. There were half a dozen cases of measles among those taken ashore. Four are from A company two of which are in our platoon Archie Smith & Swann. It is only German measles. Fisher has tonsolitis but expects to be back again in a couple of days. The news this morning only concerned France nothing about the Dardanelles or Russia. I believe they have made good progress in the former place if they have not actually got right through. More boats in to-day but no word of the rest of our division. It is rumoured Sir Ian Hamilton is to command this expedition & is to arrive to-day. Nothing official about our moving or the arrival of the rest of the division. Most of the French force must be here by now. Thursday Had a day with the heads. We must have seen ½ a doz Generals at the same time this morning. The new scout 'Phaeton arrived yesterday with Sir Ian Hamilton & staff aboard. They ran from Marseilles in two days, quite easy for a 36 knot boat. She is a new class built for scouting & destroying destroyers. Not heavily armed, nearly everything being sacrificed for speed. We took the brigadier off to her on his own. At the same time a couple of British Generals & their staffs & 2 French Generals with their staffs arrived on their official visits to Sir Ian. The saluting that went on among them was never ending. We were not kept waiting long as the 'Phaeton' moved off after the visitors had hurriedly got aboard their small craft. The sailors said she was going up the Dardanelles sightseeing. Coming back the Brigadier told us that we would be here for some time as the French & Naval Brigade & marines would probably move first. He also told us that the Queen Elizabeth was heavily engaged. A large number of shells struck her yesterday but only bounced back into the water. This new elastic armoured steel must be wonderful stuff. One shell only did any damage, entering the a ward room possibly through a porthole. No casualties were mentioned. To-day has been a bit rough making rowing difficult. They took all the morning to take the battalion off, as each boat has to make 3 trips, some 4. We had quite a rough time rowing the brigadier round to several of the Castle boats this afternoon. This evening four of the Castle boats and the Royal George went out. Nobody seems to know where they are bound for. I think there is R. M-L. I. on all. The officers were all supposed to wear web equipment & rifles for the first time. They didn't play the game though as they only had overcoats in their packs. B4 got a cheer mixed with jeers when he appeared with his. Unfortunately he had noticed a great 12lb tin of bully somebody had slipped in when his batman wasn't looking. There were some nurses aboard the  al Nirvanha. A hospital has been established ashore so perhaps Gay Burns is there. I haven't seen any of them but next time we go to Mudros I will have a look out. Still no mail. Have found out there is a weekly mail with Egypt & Castro which lies somewhere on the other side of the island. It comes overland from Castro to Mudros but there has been no military letters yet. Perhaps they don't haven't let the headquarters P.O. know where to send ours. Friday Last night I had just finished this & had time to undress & settle down comfortably  when in came Sgt Tomlinson The crew was wanted to take the Adg. & the two interpreters we have with us, ashore. Some Greek had run amok & been laid out by one of our chaps before doing any damage. The local police were kicking up a shindy. The wind had increased so those heavy gigs needed some pulling against the head wind. It took us nearly 2 hours solid pulling to get to the newly constructed 9th jetty. We got back to the ship at 2.30 am. We have been off all duty to-day as a reward. There was to have been another attempt at night landing in the morning but I expect it will be cancelled as the wind is still strong. At no time have the waves been large enough to cause the slightest movement of the Ionian but the gigs being so high out of the water, catch it all & make it only possible to move very slowly against it. The Castle liners all came back to-day having only cruised outside the harbour. To day comes the official news that the Invincible Ocean Irresistible have met with misfortune with no loss of life but a French cruiser sank with all hands in 3 minutes. The trouble seems to be floating mines. 
The Turks or rather the Germans float these mines down the Straights with the tide, causing the men of war to move out each night. The library was opened to-day. The 9th Orderley room where we sleep is being used. However we have still got our tables & lounges & as it is only to be open for an hour each day it will cause no inconvenience. I got hold of a book by Mc Cutcheon 'Nedra', this morning & have finished it. It is a most perplexing book, but I expect you have read it. It has struck me that the reason of the others getting the chance of removal before us is the want of transports to bring up the rest of the Division. I surmise that the opportunity of 4 transports near Egypt was the cause of the 3rd Brigade moving when they did it did and were was intended as a reserve for the marines that landed. Finding that it was premature to attempt it at present & the other forces arriving complete, they naturally would get pride of position. I believe there are over 2000 transports engaged & just at this time they would have none to spare from the Channel. Saturday The Dardanelles rumours yesterday were not quite right as we found out this morning when the official news from the 'Hussar' was posted up. The Irresistible & Ocean & 2 French boats were sunk and the Invincible was damaged by a  howitzer battery but successfully beached at Tenedos. This happened Thursday. We had a lecture this afternoon about the war. It is estimated there are 18000 German officers & non coms among the Turks. You see Germany has been frighten ed all along Turkey would say 'Kismet' when the bombardment started & make it an excuse to declare peace early to save Constantinople; which is quite on the boards I think. There is a rumour among the officers that Sir Ian Hamilton has declared he wont table the proposition without half a million men. It has been blowing a gale to-day. There has been no chance of any crews going out. Each company in turn had a sort of route march round the ship. Being off all other duties except the crew I have been reading all day. I struck an old bound volume of the Cornhill. A mail closed today. Through Keith Green I was able to write you more than the regulation page chiefly extracts from this diary letter. How I hate writing letters that I know are to be censored. I quake when I think this one might be. All the boats have two anchors out, but the waves are not strong enough to cause any motion. The wind is howling through the rigging in a most mournful way. This storm will stop all operations in the Dardanelles. until It is wonderful what can be done with bully beef. The past 3 days since our cooks have taken over the galley they have made different kinds of stews with it, quite palatable they have been. The lights have gone out so it is Goodnight again my Darling. Monday night I didn't write yesterday. There didn't seem anything of interest to write about & then paper is getting short. A couple of the Oceans crew have been attached to us for signalling purposes until they get another ship. It appears they had plenty of time to get off the Ocean taking 3 hours to sink. Some of the crew, excited, jumped on to the decks of the rescuing boat & broke their legs. The two sister ships easily distinguishable Agamemnon & Lord Nelson with the Queen Elizabeth came in last night. A shell pierced one of the funnels of the 'Liza. We haven't heard much of the last engagement. The storm blew out yesterday. The crew had a trip to the Hussar after war news & to the 3rd Brigade boats. In the afternoon the wind was blowing nearly as strongly o from the immediate reverse quarter & has kept up to-day. The gigs have been so badly knocked about that I believe they are not to be used for taking troops ashore anymore. The companies have been taking it in turn to exercise by running round the ship. This afternoon General Birdwood who arrived to-day in the 'Doris' came aboard. The Doris has been engaged bombarding Smyrna. Whether she brought mails from with the General remains to be seen. Four weeks to day without a line. That's the hardest part of all. One of the chaps who was recommended for one of those commissions in the English army got hold of the what he says is reliable information that nearly all those recommended had been granted. I hope my luck changes if we get into any action. 

getting a veritable book wor[m]. [Yes]terday I finished that volume of [Co]rnhill & to-day Jess by Rider Hagg[ard]. [Th]is is not bad reading though the en[ding] [se]ems too sad. I think I would have finished it another way. When at the flagship yesterday they gave us some London Times & copies of the Malta Daily Chronicle as late as March 10th. Here I am at the last page. I will have to [pu]ll back on sheets of paper. When I get [a] chance I will post you the two books of carbon copies in case any of the letters have gone astray. This might be a worlds record letter 44 page[s] so far & not chance of posting for some  [t]ime. I forgot to number Saturdays censored letter C4. These censored mails will be weekly going ashore on Mondays to the local post office where they are sent to Castro & thence per steamer to Alexandria via Athens. They should [arrive] in time to catch the following weeks Australian mail which leaves on Tuesdays generally. I will end up this page as a letter & the go on with a No 19 on whatever I can get hold of. Goodnight my Darling Angel from your ever loving boy. Tom.