Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte
Rank: Private
Date: 1 March 1915
Location: Alexandria Egypt
Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade
Nationality: Australian

Text:

Alexandria   March 1st, 1915.  My Own Little Girl  It is now 5pm & we are likely to   pull off at any time. I posted No 16 from   Cairo but as late orders came out that all   letters were to be censored it may have   been held up on that account. I sent   you a postcard to this effect.  We left Mena at 8 oclock last night marching   into Cairo where we waited for a couple   of hours in the square of the Kasr el Nil  barracks at present occupied by a regiment   of Lancaster Terriers. Although it was 11 when we   arrived they were kind enough to open   their canteen & we soon bought them out   of pudding, bread & cheese, cold meats, tea   etc. The march from there to the railway   station (central) was about 1 1/2 miles.  The roads all the way were po tarred macad.  & played up with our feet a little, after being   used so much to sand. None of them seem   to be sore to-day. We had a slow train   journey of about 5 hours which landed us   in Alexandria at 8 this morning.  I was sorry the journey was mostly in   the dark as I would very much liked to   have seen a bit of the Delta as it was
a fire control station.  The usual practise is to  control the guns from an observation point some  distance from the fort both on account of better  security & so that the dust raised by the shells that  hit will not affect the sighting.  The first shell from  the 'Liza took off the roof, the second the top storey  & the 3rd left debris only.  The forts replied but  the shells fell very short.  "Actually under fire"   Flossie said when he got back.  Chapman has been given a Commission in the   British Army & attached to Lieut Colonel Wyly of the   Intelligence Corps.  A portion of this corps is attached  to the A & NZ Army Corps.  I am sure no one will   grudge Chapman the honour, he well deserves it.  A great joke was played on Crowhurst last night.  He got a  Registered parcel containing a pair of socks & mittens  on which 1/4 had been paid in stamps.  A false  registration book was rigged up & he was asked  to pay 1/3 surcharge.  He was in a great state holding  forth much to our amusement as he is rather a  hard case.  Just as he was left had made up his mind to   enter a complaint to the colonel we gave him  back his 1/3. 

What a goat I am when I said I hadn't received  the flannels I got the idea into my head it   was body belts.  Of course I received the monogrammed  knitted flannels.  By the way isn't that rather  a confusing misnomer.  Feb 19 is quite a remarkable date.  It is the  day the Australian contingent to New Guinea  landed back in Australia, the day we became  full blown soldiers after our 6 months service,  the date of the first bombardment of the  Dardanelles & notable for another event you  probably remember.  Tuesday.  I am afraid our reign in the 9th Orderly Room is  to end.  An officer came in last night & said it was  wanted for regimental duties so we will probably have  to go out to-day.  Yesterday the Queen Elizabeth did a trial run to the Dardanelles.  Her engines have ben fixed up properly & the 15" shells have  arrived.  All the colonels & staff of the 3rd Brigade were taken   up for a recconoitre.  I heard they had quite an exciting  time for the colonel at any rate.  Our Flossie was  in a great state of excitement when he came back.  There was an unsuspicious looking white house on a  hill half a mile from one of the ports.  I appears they have  just tumbled to the fact that it was being used as 
we saw quite a lot this morning.  Vivid green everywhere.  What intense   cultivators the Egyptians are. Every square  yard seems to be utilised.  They don't waste  ground on fences not even round their  cemeteries which have no dividing line  between them & the fields. The villages are  much the same as near Cairo. Mud shacks  with an appearance of being all joined together  with no system or method whatever.  The ones  we saw this morning were lower roofed than  near Cairo, smaller & with frequent domes.  It is not hard to imagine how Egypt supports  22 million people. I don't think you could ever  be out of sight of one of these villages in any  part of the valley. I have heard a yarn that  Lord Kitchener while a captain in the Egyptian  Army disappeared for 3 years.  He spent it   'doing' Egypt as a native.  If it is true what  a wonderful story he could tell.  The Ionian is not a large boat, about 6000 tons  I think an Allan liner from the American trade.  She has just come from India.  Some shells  she brought that need refilling as well as other  cargo for England has been landed here.  There were large quantities of firewood waiting  to be loaded when we arrived.  These two   circumstances obviously prove we are  
not going to Europe.  Firewood would only be   loaded in a desert.  The general opinion now  is Alexandrietta or Jaffa to cut up the railway  so as to successfully prevent any raid on  Egypt for some time.  The accommodation is not quite as good as on  the Ascanius but as it will only be a 3 or 4  days trip we won't notice it.  The 10th & 9th  with Brigade Headquarters staff are on board.  This morning while waiting for our time to   go on board (11.30) Smith Jose Fisher & I did   a slope to the city.  We drove about the narrow  stone paved streets for a while & then pulled  up at a fine hotel in the European quarter  We had a magnificcent feed of ham & eggs  & coffee & came back without being missed.  Alexandria is different to Cairo.  There is  a much greater number of Europeans (mostly Dagos)  about.  The streets we went through had all  a similar appearance being both a closer  mixture of Eastern & Western than Cairo.  There they are nearly all distinct.  Of course   we only had time to see very little.  The harbour is full of shipping & a lot of   likely looking transports are about. We will  probably pull out to-night into the stream.  Goodness knows when you will hear  from me [[again]] . I havent the slightest 
Rifle Club with Noel Webb as chief coach.  Nobody seems to want to be left out in the  cold.  We have had great laughs over those letters  of Corporal Mitchell to Lady Brown that  have appeared in the 'Mail'.  The last  has been posted up while & crowds have   listened & roared while somebody has read the  ridiculous lies out.  He is getting a  fearful time but is the sort of complacent  fool that ridicule doesn't trouble.  Still some troopships arriving.  The latest  rumour is that we start Wednesday morning  weather permitting.  I must not say too much  about our movements now.  We had a view of a seaplane in flight  this afternoon.  I didn't tell you that the  mother ship of with 21 seaplanes has been  in harbour several days.  There are all  sorts of troops here but I must not detail  them because etc. after they are due.  I hope they do arrive as  they will be very useful.  Lots of the chaps  have been getting socks posted to them.  Though I have plenty at present they are  a pair would probably be useful presently  as one kn never knows when the black  kitsbags will be getatable.  Jones had a letter from Barry Muirhead.  You will remember him, he is engaged  to Cassie Butler.  After mentioning that  the Adelaide R C had 43 enlisted to date  & talking about a lot of fellows eligible  for the front joining rifle clubs etc.  he adds 'So you see we are all intensely  patriotic & do our duty nobly (& safely).  We seem all mean enough to deride the  stay at home soldiers.  You always hear  a jeer of disgust when somebody reads out  that so & so has joined a rifle club or  the Local Light Horse.  How we did laugh  over the photo in the Observer of the Ladies   
idea of what the mail arrangements will  bea.  We may be only there a few days or we  may be there a month. I hardly think we  will see any fighting.  We will be well above  the Turkish landing army. If they met  us I hardly think they would fight. They  must be in a most deplorable condition.  The state of the prisoners in Cairo could  hardly be worse whatever must their  state now be.  I have joined a cable league.  Anything  interesting is cabled to Fordham the broker  in Adelaide who sends postcards out to about  a dozen of our fellows people.  Your name  has just been added to the list, at least  he was informed last mail.  I only heard   about it yesterday Saturday or I would have  joined before.  A cable was then sent 'Leaving  all well' as much as the censor would allow.  In case of anything serious a private direct  cable would be sent. Fordham has the  shortest cable address & the best means of  informing those in the 'ring'.  It is getting late now & I think I had better close  so as not to miss any chance of posting.  I will  try & send a series of postcards of the "Book of   the Dead" the Egyptian Bible at the same time.  The only thing I feel concerned about is that I  don't know when [I'll] get another letter from you.  [[Goodnight?]] my Darling, Tom.    