Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte
Rank: Private
Date: 24 April 1915
Location: Ionian off Dardanelles Turkey
Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade
Nationality: Australian

Text:


H. M. T. Ionian off Dardanelles April 24, 1915.
 My Dear Sweetheart, No. 19 has just been completed & the book has been delivered for posting. I thought of writing this in case I went under suddenly, and partly because I did not like to include what I wanted to say nowin the book. not that at present I have any thought of not seeing you again but in case of accidents. I want to let you know by this means, that ever since I first commenced to love you I have always loved you fondly. I think it was in Sydney when I received your letter with 6s on the back that it began to dawn on me that you were more to me than anybody. Ever since then my love for you has grown stronger & stronger, until now I feel that I love you more than I ever dreamt was possible for any man to love. You have been the one great  thought in my life. It has come home to me more than ever since I left Australia how impossible life would be to me without you. I can't realise myself how thoughts of you have completely obsessed every waking minute for the past month Every step, every action has been preceded by the thought 'How will this strike Eileen' Oh God! I love you. As this will is only intended to reach you in the event of my death you will know that my thoughts will have been of you right until the end. Of this I feel absolutely certain You can't imagine how it hurts to write this letter. The one thing I cant bear to think of is the possibility of not being able to see you, to marry you, to live the happiest of lives with you. May this letter never be necessary. But the thought that hurts worst of all is of you & your sorrow. For me, (as you know I believe) just oblivion. It is you that will suffer. The thought of that will be the hard part of crossing the bar. We have no means of comparison but this is a cruel world sust just you think of the misery you can see everywhere. If there is a controlling God what a cruel God he must be The one thing that makes the cruellest sorrow bearable is that healer of all things 'Time'. So look forward to that one silver lining. The chief thought in human nature when suffering great sorrow is to do pennance. This to my mind appears wrong. The world seems upside down. I think we should do our best to heal the wound & not to keep it open as the natural tendency  seems. Darling I want you to grieve as little as possible Just think of me as non existent in To Nicholas Schmidt. A rather remarkable letter - Moving, poignant, even noble. Andrew Adamson  
The crossing out on last page could only have been done by my mother. The short hand would be hers too. 

spirit, blotted out completely. It would soften the last thoughts if I knew you would be really happy again. I want you to marry again when the opportunity comes. If it is not to be me, may it be someone much worthier. That is not written for mere form.  love. I have endeavoured to make you as happy as I could. We have had some wonderful times and it is better to have loved & lost than never to have loved at all. You have always been my ideal woman & to make you happy would have been my sole ambition. Goodbye my love, may you get all the happiness you deserve, will be my last wish Your loving husband, Tom.