
Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte
Rank: Private
Date: 26 February 1915
Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt
Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade
Nationality: Australian

Text:

Mena Camp, Cairo. February 26, 1915. Friday
 My Dear Sweetheart, We are to move Sunday according to the latest 'Mulga' The ninth & 11th are not going ahead alone but the 3rd Brigade. Perhaps this will be the last letter you will get from Mena It seems quite sad in a way I suppose we must give up No 1 1etter That chap must have lost it or forgotten all about it. I will go over your letter bit by bit & answer your many questions Why do you ask about getting the Trousseau to-gether. Most certainly I want you to & don't ever say or think again that it might have to be given away. I feel as certain of coming back whole as it is possible to be. Moreover the more I see of this army the better I like my chances There is one thing certain A Coy of the tenth will never get the dangerous jobs to do. The Brigadier & Colonel are fully aware of our friend's incompetence. Then again the 10th are not the best commanded battalion in the brigade from what I can hear from headquarters and the brigadier is as careful as it any canny Scot can be From an officer just landed from  England comes the news that half the Spring  Army from Britain has been successfully  transported to the continent. This if true  will make our chance of getting into  the firing  line rather remote for some  time.   How I hate to read of you tearing up any  letters. Don't be afraid of any confusion thro  many letters being in one envelope. I  absolutely love unravelling & piecing them  to-gether.  The Australian P.O. officials have been  very generous .  It came out in orders  when we landed here that postage  on letters had to be prepaid & this still  holds good as far as this end is concerned.  I was surprised in a way about the birthdays.  I thought the sequence was in March.   How I got that into my head I dont  know. I will write a letter to your mother  this mail though I dont suppose she  will receive it until after Mar. 20     It was delicious hearing of Mollies  slang. She must be getting on wonderfully   quickly.   I cant think who Vera Rowe is for   the life of me.  I seem to know the name yet I cant remember any girl of that   name. Perhaps she believes in Spiritualism  or Bhuddism & it was in a former life   she missed her chance. However I don't  blame her.  I have carefully read over Beans  famous letter. I have an idea there  will be trouble or lots of paper talk.   It seems to create great resentment among  the soldiers. Everywhere . you hear  condemnatory opinions about it. On  a close analysis I can find very little  that has not some truth in it but  the whole thing creates such a false  impression. I feel sure it will do much  more harm than good. It would be  grossly unfair to publish the names of  those sent back & the reason. If they  do there will be trouble I feel sure.   Whoever the military authority is who  asked 'But do all Australians drink quite  so much' I don't know but I know   this he is a wowser or an ignoramus  Drunkenness has been comparatively  very little in Cairo. Think of 20000  men landed in a city like Cairo with plenty  of money & no restraining influences  and the [[dop?]] liquor to drink. It has  all along seemed a marvel to me   that there was not much more.    Any lady travelling in the last trams   to Mena would have found nothing   to remark on except perhaps the crowdedness   for the roofs are crammed as much   as anywhere else. I have seen more   disgusting sights on a Saturday nights   tram to Hyde Park than I have seen   on the Pyramids tram.  The headlines the Advertiser & other   papers have put in to show it up   in the worst line. Bean says only 1 or 2% are responsible for all this   unameable scandal. Well that is a very   small percentage of wasters in any army   and the henious crimes they have committed   consist chiefly of breaking leave Take   the 10th battalion. Seventeen were sent   back in the first batch, 10 as medically   unfit, most of whom will enlist again   7 as discharged ie the wasters Bean talks   about. In the second batch 10 of each are   being returned. Of these more than half   are old hands that is South African soldiers,   British regulars or navy men mostly of them   des joining this force as deserters & more   than half are not Australians at all This is I believe about the same over the   same as in the other battalions. Some   of the 'wasters' would be the finest soldiers   in the world in the firing line but   because they have more than once  broken leave for longer than a day   they are classed as deserters and after   being at kept in detention here for   periods varying from 7 to 28 days are   returned. One man as an instance from   our company. Scotty Robertson a five foot six nuggetty chap immensely popular   with officers & men especially with Major Hurcombe   for whom he would do anything. Fourteen   years in the Black Watch is Scottys record   when he was on parade no neater, smarter,   more soldierly man could be found And   drill, he was a picture to watch. But   Scottys only fault was booze. A few drinks   sent him over & then arose his violent   dislike to policemen. Luckily, he d never   did any harm as the Red caps know how   to deal with tights. He didn't reckon the   native policemen worth calling such.   Our 'old woman' got her say at last   (though Hurcombe was heard to say   he wished he had a regiment of Scotty's)  and Scotty is going to Australia to hop into the next contingent by   hook or crook. This case is not peculiar.   I am firmly of the opinion that   the heads who are responsible for   this returning are poor judges of   human nature. There was a real   rotter in this battalion who got 12   months in the Malta gaol (which   will not be unfamiliar to him) for   hitting Froggy Oldham. He was a cockney   regular & joined as a deserter.   The slovenly appearance of some men   is easily accounted for by the sloppy   & only uniform we had. Every man   has always been critically inspected   before going to Cairo but if his one &   only uniform has been showing the   result of 5 months constant wear,   who is to blame. It is all rot about   old soldiers showing off. This alone   shows Bean off as being unreliable.  I have spoken to lots of veterans, we have   from A Coy who could be relied on for   an opinions worth having  as to why most offenders are old soldiers.  Our Sergeant   Major who has been a soldier all his life   & seen more than one campaign put   the position this way. When a recruit  joins the Regulars discipline of the hardest sort is down on him from the  first hour  If he is any good it may slacken but the discipline is there as is   the commanding officers judgement in  knowing how to deal with men.  In this force it was quite the opposite   Discipline was very slack at first  & gra tightened spasmodically and   the officers did not know how to   deal with men. These old soldiers   of the unsteady sort took advantage   of any licence & the heads dont not knowing   how to deal with them have resorted   to discharging them & inspiring   articles like Beans to shift the blame.   If things are no worse than in any   other army (from what I hear we are angels to streets above the Canadians) why do   all this harm by these flaring head   lines  Do they imagine they will improve   things this way?  If they do I know   nothing about human nature.    They sent a circular to the second   contingent on their arrival at   Port Said which accused us of Scandals   in a similar strain to Beans letters. When they   landed they found most of it   to be round exaggerated & what was the result. They were more 2nd contingent   drunks in Cairo their first week of   landing, than in the first week of   the landing of the first, 3 times their   number.  Then these unmentionable diseases. Egypt   has been notorious for venereal disease   since history began. The very ancestors   of these people were the ones who helped   to introduce syphillus into Europe   through the Crusaders. They are supposed   to be under control of the authorities   & medically examined but they are not.    The semi respectable demi-mondes seem to be the worst   & the result is that the proportions of   officers bitten is as great as the men.    These diseases can be prevented to a certain   extent, but the authorities did not take   steps in time. Well I feel much better having got all   this off my chest At anyrate you will   be able to size up the truth of Beans   or any other article for yourself. I am enclosing 2 photos taken at   last Sunday's lacrosse match. The   group is the 10th battalion team & reading   from left to right show Top Du Rieu   (referee) Edwards, Whyte, Nott, Gordon, Edwards & Blackburn. Bottom row Rent, White HH,   White Rh., Gower, Fordham & Rhodes. The   duet is supposed to represent me in   a characteristic attitude 'humming   cigarettes'  I am not quite as black   as the photograph would have you believe.    You can just see the a Maria tram   in the background of both. The trees   are on the Pyramids road. We could   not show the    do.   as a background   on account of the position of the sun.    I got hold of some interesting particulars   of the fighting on the Canal. Major   Brand & some other officers went down   to have a look round afterwards &   this is from his lecturette to #4   Platoon whom he happened to come across   in the desert The British forces pumped water from   the canal into the low lying ground shown in   sketch as A & B (shaded) rendering attack   on Kantara only possible where our forces   were most strongly entrenched Y - Z  The first attack took place at 3.26 am but   was easily repulsed At exactly the same   time a Turkish force of unknown   strength advanced right up to the Canal   to a point marked X between Ismailia   &  Yessoum & launched galvanized iron   boats. The fighting at this point was very  fierce for a time but in the end the   enemy were repulsed (This is evidently   where that strategy described in a previous   letter was shown by our forces) Had they brought forward their 25000   troops in reserve about 6 miles away   the issue may have been different.   There is some who believe the reserve   refused to go forward.   The boats were used by the Turks had   been dragged across the Sinai Desert   on sledges by relays of men Wonders will never cease. The second   lot of 'wasters' were to have embarked   a week a go but the boat was not   ready. The were all sent to Abbassia 3 or 4 days ago & placed under guard   there. Half an hour ago Scotty turned   up here & made straight for Major   Hurcombe who has promised to do   his best for him. He only heard yesterday   we were to move soon. However he broke   away goodness only knows. 'Ah thought Ah wud be able to keel a   few more Germans if Ah went wi this   force instid of ha'ing to gaw to Australi   & back' he explained to the Major:   What a character he is. We are still in the dark as to our   destination or actual date of departure   Since writing on Tuesday the war news   unfolds yet another likely objective   I mean Constantinople.  If the Allies   intentions are serious & a Russian   attack is really intended on the   Dardanelles an Australian landing   party from this side would possibly   be a help.  Still what's the use of   all this surmising.  You will know   long before this reaches your I expect.   A & B Coy did all the Divisional guards   & fatigues instead of the 9th Battalion for the 24 hours commencing 5 pm   yesterday. I caught an easy guard on the 'Strand' the shops at  the back of the lines from 'Retreat'  to 'Reveille' only so I have had  most of to-day to myself.  There is  great activity preparatory to striking  Camp.  I believe we are taking our  tents with us.  There has been fresh  issue of nearly all clothes.  I believe  we are to get caps the same as the  second contingent.  I have 4 pairs   of boots now which I managed to get  by gentle engineering  The ones  I had at Morphettville are as good  as new in spite of two being twice  soled.  It will be a job to pack my  kit bag Four shirts, two cap comforter  1d, 4 belts, 2 singlets lined with wool  6 pairs of socks & everything else  issued.  There doesn't seem to be much fresh  in war news.  The Russian retirement  out of East Prussia was expected  a month ago in highest military  circles.  I am enclosing a cutting  that may interest you.  We are going on leave to-morrow  Sunday.  We are off at 7pm to-night march to Cairo  entrain at 11 & reach Alexandria early to-morrow morning the 10th are embarking  on the 'Ionian' destination unknown.  We had our leave yesterday.  We managed  to get up a team to play the Englishmen  some of the best players could not go  & their places had to be taken by 5 very  raw mugs.  I suppose I will have to blame  them for our horrible licking of 20 to 6.  The Terriers played a very fine game  & I can quite believe they would beat  any team left in England.  I was selected  as captain.  The Terriers had the advantage  of us in having had plenty of practise & their  own stick Out [[hole in paper]] was very erratic  I managed to get one of the 6 goals! In  the evening several of us dined at  the Restaurant Parisian and after  a short wander around came home  We struck tents at 6.30 this morning  & have been straightening the place up  since  It will take us all day so I  wont have time to write anymore  I hope we get our mail this week  before leaving leaving.  It is quite likely we  wont leave Alexandria for a week as  I believe the whole division is to go  They are calling me Good bye for the present darling  Remember every week parted will make the reunion  more wonderful Your loving husband Tom.