Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte
Rank: Private
Date: 18 March 1915
Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade
Nationality: Australian

Text:

March 18, 1915.

My Dear Eileen,
Everything is going along
smoothly. We are gradually settling down to 
troopship life though it is not the most enjoyable
Heard today we are likely to be here for some time
It is 3 weeks since we have seen a mail but one
is expected daily           charge
We get a summary of the official war news
each day which serves to keep us slightly in touch
with the world.            French
I have an idea Gay is here, but exactly where at
I don't know.
Not a sign of the others yet. Rumours say they
have not left  the last base yet.
Since the first the last week or so  I have been doing a good deal 
of rowing in ships jigs. Practically the same crew
as at Aden rows the Brigadier round. Its much
more interesting than sloping  and route marches
I am up to page 92 in the book, but what chance there
is of posting I can't even guess.
You might ask Tom to ring up Rev F.H. Stokes & give him
what information you have gathered.
I am afraid you will have to wait for any news
until there is a chance of sending those carbon
pages.

19/3/1915                            
Friday A library was opened to-day. The crew being
off duty, owing to a trip ashore last night,
I was able to read one of McCutcheons novels
'Nedra' The finish is most perplexing. I didn't
know whether to feel disgusted or pleased. But
I expect you have read it.
Up to page 96 with only 4 to go to complete the book
I haven't another so will have to fall back
on odd scraps of paper.
How I long for a letter. It seems worse than
that 3 weeks at Mena.
The last couple of weeks has been quite  civilized
actually, sleeping in pyjamas on a smoking
room couch. The pattern of the saddleback
seems to me exactly the same as Tom's & Freda's
I have the use of a very nice marble topped
card table to do any writing. How long it
will last I cant say.
Fisher has been down with tonsolitis but
all the others are well.
They are very strict on the censoring
It is only owing to Cap Green's kindness I have
been able to send more than one page.
They have service postcards printed with
phrases like  'I am well'  'I am in hospital'
'I am wounded'. You cross out what is
not wanted. Not sure if 'I am dead' is
on them.
Old B4 is still the most disliked in
the whole battalion even among the officers
I think. I always feel like punching his
bald greasy countenance whenever I see it
The food has been a lot better the last
couple of days since we have had our
own cooks in the galley.
I can't think of any more to say so
goodnight
Yours ever
Tom
Love to all.