
Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte
Rank: Private
Date: 20 April 1915
Location: Alexandria Egypt
Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade
Nationality: Australian

Recipient: Miss E. W. Champion 'Cartoon' Omar Place Unley Park South Australia.

Text:  

Tuesday, April 20, 1915. RL Cooper Lt    

My Dear Eileen Early this morning I got quite a surprise to receive your letter of March 19. There was one from Lex too. His comment on your information of receiving a 30 page letter was that I must have been very full. I laughed over your episode re Maughams. Of course it couldn't be helped & you were very clever to get out of some of it as you did. How slow some people are to see through ladders. Les is a despicable cad. I feel very sorry for Vera though a lot of it is her own fault for putting up with it. I don't think you will find much of interest in that library I never got most of the interesting books. I don't remember 'Sarchidon'. Lex mentioned something about the war in his letter that makes me think he would be interested in pp 80 - 84 of No 18, & 110-113 of No. 19 when you get it. You might pass on anything you think would interest him very much. I wouldn't ask you only you say you love writing to Whytes. I thought Les would probably be leaving in time to be here soon but I gather it may be some time before they get under weigh. This week's mail will probably be the last for a while. I think I said that on the previous two occasions but you will understand how things are. If you have heard nothing by the time this reaches you. you will know everything is O.K. I am sorry I had no luck with 19 last week & the worst of it there will probably be a delay of a month. I was quite right in what I said on page 40 of No 16 8th 7, 6 & 5th lines from the bottom. It has turned out exactly. 'Land & Water' is very interesting this week, the Apr. 3rd issue I mean. Belloc reckons being released by the fall of I don't think I was far wrong in my estimate of those taking part. Here is the end of the page so good night Yours ever, Tom.