Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte
Rank: Private
Date: 3 March 1915
Location: Ionian 
Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade
Nationality: Australian

Text:


My Dear Little Wife
 H.M.S. Ionian  Wednesday March 3. 1915  It is difficult to know what to do about  letters now.  They will all be censored & just what  we will be allowed to say I don't know.  I loathe  writing letters for the censor more than you  do.  There always seems to be nothing to say.  I think I will fill in everything I can in  this letter from time to time & have it posted   at the first opportunity uncensored.  Well we found out yesterday we are bound  for Lemnos an island 60 miles from  the Dardenelles.  Apart from hearing it  is a Greek possesion (doubtful) of with  13000 inhabitants mostly Greek, I know  absolutely nothing more.  We left Alexandria at midday yesterday.  I believe we should have left before but  they did not finish taking all the wood aboard.  We are not accompanied by any other boats.  She is an awful tub of a boat & pretty dirty.  I believe she had been transporting Indian  troops & landed some at Port Said before coming  on to Alexandria.  The accommodation is very  limited & the food is not as varied as the   Accanius  but plentiful.  There are no
Friday March 5, 1915. Here we are lying at anchor off Lemnos waiting for Greece to declare war at least that is the rumour. The harbour is splendid Half a dozen transports and as many men of war makes you realise that there is such a thing as war. We arrived yesterday evening after a wonderfully calm voyage.  Yesterday we passed lots of islands of all of which seemed uninhabited, some of them only rocks. As we approached here there were lots of men of war knocking round us looking very ghostly in the pale moonlight with not a light showing. I could can make out what look like at a couple of battleships or armoured cruisers, a destroyer, two torpedo boats & a submarine They have been nearly all on the move the only other transport I can recognise is the Suffolk. Evidently the 3rd Brigade  was made here. The island from here looks a mixture of rocks & [[dou]] grassy downs a village of about 50 houses lies abreast of us. There is higher land further back. If the rumour on the top of the page is true & Greece does not declare war by tomorrow night we will have

Sunday April 11, 1915. 
 A mail to-day from Australia.  It must have come by a transport  that left Egypt late Wednesday of Thursday.  I feel so very sorry at you not getting my  any letters for 3 weeks.  I didn't miss a mail  in Egypt & can't understand it.  Your letter was the one covering from Feb 8  until March 11.  There was one from Campbell  & Jack O'Connell.  Campbell had evidently written  me a letter I didn't receive explaining the  missed Xmas present.  He mentioned he  hadn't seen you for some time.  You know  that pretty girl in O'Hallorans office  Iris Fisher she used to come down to the  rowing at the Port.  Well I used to tease  Campbell about her.  I think he is struck  from something he says in his letter.  The photo I sent him was battered about  in the face.  He remarks that my representation  is evidently not as hard as the original.  I haven't received the woollen flannels  but that is not strange as parcels have  a habit of turning up a month or so no possible.  The greatest ?? successes so far  (factors that will loom large in determining  a successful issue) are the Allies superiority  in artillery & aircraft; the former depending  on the latter to a large extent.  From Belloes  articles you will easily be able to understand  why.  No less interesting are Jane's naval  contributions & Col Maudes' on Engineering  problems, especially the last two or 3 concerning  the Dardanelles.  Nobody seems to have any idea as to our  method of attack.  It may be at the isthmus  of the Gallipoli Peninsula (Bulair) either from the  Sea of Xeros (Saros) or the Dardanelles, it may be  lower down on the Peninsula or on the  Asia Minor coast & just possible at Smyrna  unless some other body has that job.  We don't know how things are going in  the Dardanelles not even if there has been  any fighting there at all recently. 
hammocks which is a blessing as  they are a nuisance.  We are allowed  nearly everywhere & I have had a good position  on the boat deck to sleep in the two nights.  There are an insufficiant number of  mess tables to go round so some have  to eat their meals sitting on their kit bags.  Nobody grumbles for a wonder.  Not   that it would do any good but soldiers  always grumble even when they are  well treated.  It is only until to-morrow  though, so it won't be as bad as it might.  We have a great pontoon on board with  a stern that drops like a tailboard  for landing horses so we evidently won't  land at a wharf.  Exactly what we will  do I can't tell.  The only think I can guess  is that Lemnos will be a base for  operations against the Dardenelles.  We may be there all the time & never see  the Turks.  When leaving Alexandria we passed the 'North  Carolina' an ‘U.S.A.’ cruiser.  Their band  played the National Anthem.  The decks  were lined & they gave cheer after cheer  & dipped their flag while we replied.  The sea have been very calm & the boat  hardly rocks.

The usual weekly mail closed last night but I didn't write as there was nothing to say. I think No 18 would catch the mooltan arriving in Adelaide about March 24. so possibly you will get it about the same time as news of our first engagement comes through. I hope you have been able to get a look at copies of 'Land & Water' They contain are easily the best articles on the war. Hilla Hilaire Belloc is recognised as the best writer of strategy etc the war has produced. Feb 28, Mar 6 & 13 numbers contain articles on the duration of the war Of course it is quite impossible to give any definite date but he gives evidence of several factors that will operate largely in bringing it to a conclusion in the near future It is evident from reading Belloc's article that the Spring forward movement will not be ready until may. Then again if the exhaustive tatics of the allies may still be persued so that the least loss of life

& everybody seems thankful to have a chance of doing something at last nobody talks as if he was not coming through alright & all thought conversations touching on the dangers are jocular. War is a wonderful thing. Saturday Still more transports coming in, some with regulars from India. It has been rough to-day which may possibly delay our departure as the men of war may not have been able to make things ready. We had a trip out this morning in spite of our protests that was impposible to make any headway against the wind. After half an hour we hadn't cleared the ship so put back. It is a great disappointment about this mail There are only English letters, resorts & parcels I knew no regular mail was due in Alexandria until this week but there was just a chance that other than a mail boat had been used as I believe they have been doing in Egypt with mails from Egypt lately 
to move out I suppose. We have no reliable news at all. I dont know even if we we are intended to land here. We don't know what is in the wind, what the next 24 hours  will see bring forth. The brigadier went off in a pinnace this morning to the flagship. She got  ran aground on a little mud island much to everyones amusement & another pinnace had to haul them off I have an idea Lemnos is mentioned in ancient Greek history. Wasn't some naval engagement waged near here? Nobody seems to know anything about it Didn't Paul wander round this way too? It is a great disadvantage not having any books to refer to. I wish the Adelaide Public Library was handy I have been amusing myself by mending socks & clothes sewing on buttons & greasing boots. I have had my rifle to pieces & got all the sand out a job that took me a couple of hours. Apart from examination of kit rifles there have been no parades. There is a great shortage of books but we manage to fill in time somehow. Saturday night Still here I believe Greece has leased this island to Great Britain.
appearance yet. The reinforcements with a lot of men left in hospital at Mena were drafted in to-day bringing the battalion up to full strength The best news I heard is that No.18 was fixed up & with an ordinary amount of luck should go through. Chapman came back in the Osmanieh that Khedival mail packet. He rejoins his company as headquarters staff could not put him on their strength. The Malda cast off this morning & so far only 4 bags of mail have been sent here, mostly English letters & Aust parcels & none for me. We were paid £2 each to-day Everybody was broke including the officers. It looks as if we were off on Monday. No one could possibly gather from the appearance or manner of the men that we were on the eve of a possible murderous engagement. Life still goes on the same  
This sounds most likely. A severely censored mail closed to-day. We were not allowed to mention anything about the war where we were or even if we had left Egypt. I sent you a note from which you may be able to gather where we are & that all is well. I also wrote one to mother & Lex, & a post card to Linda. I don't know how it is going back. The 9th landed to-day They are going to bivouac for 3 days. The two colonels tossed up for which battalion was to land & as usual 'Flossie' lost. We are to go ashore for exercise every other day I believe. This is a beautiful harbour, completely landlocked & evidently very deep & roomy as there is an armoured cruiser a French cruiser 3 destroyers 3 submarines & a torpedo boat besides 7 or 8 transports Three arrived this morning from England with some Territorials aboard. I heard there were some marines also aboard another transport. One of the men of war arrived from the Dardanelles to-day The information comes  passes through several hands so it is sure to be garbled The forts seem to be difficult to complete
I was speaking to Cap Baker to-night He used to stay at the Coffee Palace & is the vet. attached to Brigade Headquarters He mentioned something about a job as mounted military policeman but I thanked him & declined. It might be a farely safe job but policeman I couldn't take on. Still I would give alot to be out of B4 º command. I finished a most delightful book to-day 'Mightier than the Sword' by Alphonse Courlander. It is a very human realistic story of journalism & except for its fantastic ending is first class. Well enough for tonight my dear. Goodnight, Friday Everything is bustle & excitement The [[Lonian?]] with the other 3rd brigade 4 boats are back near their old positions while the harbour is gradually filling with transports Practically all the ?? Aust division is here No Light Horse have or N.Z. have put in an 
capture as the Turks keep bringing up field guns & preventing any parties landing party The rumour goes that a force of 500 marines landed in two parties One was cut up terribly & only 8 returned This seems to be the only one of many rumours that is reliable. Apart from this we have heard no war news whatever. It looks to me as if they will make this a base for an army operating against the Dardanelles. Whether we will see any actual fighting or not is hard to say. There was one amusing incident when the 9th were disembarking. The ships boats were in a leaky condition through the sun. One started to fill when the men got in. An officer tried to make a cheap hero of himself by gesticulating in the boat & telling the men to keep calm as everything was alright. The men were treating it as a joke while the officer seemed the most excited. Of course they were all quickly on board again with nothing more than wet feet. The weather has been lovely, most temperate neither [[?]] hot nor cold There is not the extremes in temperature 
Lieut Robley of in charge of the Machine Gun section is very ill Rheumatic fever & pneumonia He is a fine chap used to work in Elder Smiths. That reminds me our old colour sergeant Oliver (whom Vera Sewell came down to Morphettville to see) has had a bad time with asthma. It is a toss up whether he will be sent back or not. We had a trip to the Minerva this afternoon & went on board.  She is only a small cruiser with 6 in. guns & quite a contrast to the 'Liza. The Canopus did a good bit of work last night. Captured a steamer flying the American flag evidently trying to run the blockade. She was chock a block with ammunition. She is lying not half a mile from us now. Loading stores & taking in water has been going on all day & we are off on Monday.

we had at Mena either. There were are a lot of little towers on both sides of the harbour we couldn't at first make out. I find they are windmills of the Dutch style. There are several hamlets round about. A bumboat was out alongside this morning & quickly sold out of cigarettes, matches, biscuits & walnuts. They could speak English well, I suppose most likely they had been sailors.   We have all been paid 30/- each pay  how long this is to last us I don't know I rather like this idea of a diary letter If I leave a letter until post day I don't seem to be able to get half the filling. Jotting down every other day or so, seems to lengthen it out though it must seem stale reading when you get it. I have exhausted everything to-night so I will say goodnight darling. Oh another thing that is difficult is to find new love phrases. I dont like repeating the same old ones. I think I will have to try & get that book on 'How to write Love Letters' Sunday night Nothing fresh has happened. The chief interests of the day seem to be the various rumours that float round. The inventive mind of the Australian soldier is superb. I will give you to-day 'latrinograms' 

The mob 2 or 3 hundred cut the hoses & turned them on the police. The police fired several volleys over their heads but 4 or 5 were hit one fatally I believe. A Territorial regiment arrived but were more inclined to join in than disperse the crowd. They had all melted away by 8 o'clock. The N.Zers started the fun but the Australians finished it. I was tipping something like that to happen before long with that crowd spoiling for a fight being kept inactive so long. The details I heard may be quite wrong but they sound true. I am glad if those military police got a touch, they have been looking for it. The best news of all is that a mail has arrived 53 bags but a lot parcels They are starting on it to-morrow at 6. I may get my letter in time to reply by the mail closing to-morrow 
The [[?]] Island is to be a base for 100,000 troops (2) We will be here from 4 to 6 weeks (3) The force is to be made up of English Regulars, Territorials troops from Malta, Marines & the Australian & NZ Corp. The (4) Lemnos is claimed by both Greece & Turkey.  G.B. has taken possession at present & will hand it over to Greece at the end of the war. (5) Half the 10th is to go for a route march to-morrow.  (6) The allies troops in Belgium & France have been driven back 50 miles. (7) The rumour about the 500 marines is exaggerated. Whatever is one to do. You can never trace the origin of these 'officials' The officers are really worse than the men. The admiral came aboard for a few minutes to-day. Who he is I can't say. There is much more room on board now the 9th has gone. They have taken all their tents. This looks as if rumour No 2 is right. There is no parson on board so no Church Parade to-day. Disinfecting troop decks instead. This is because of the presence of some species of livestock. Luckily I have not been inhabited yet. I am anxious to get ashore, I scent pages of descriptive matter or attempts at it. Oh well another goodnight I suppose Dear it is getting a long time now 
Thursday The second reinforcements are here alright We went aboard one of the transports to-night She is the smallest a Khedival Mail Coy liner There are detatchments fro of all the Aus. battalion 2nd reinforcements on board the 5 boats now in. This is some of the news I picked up. Alexandria is full of transports so all the division including 2nd contingent will be coming here. There was a bit of a rumpus in Cairo the other day something that will make the wowsers secretly rejoice & sermonise Some Maori was stabbed or robbed in a house in the Whazi (Bazaar) (a house of ill fame) At about 3 the next afternoon a mob wrecked the place & burnt the furniture in the street 'Short of wood' yelled someone & down came a photo yours & mine wardrobe & a piano. They were followed by ladies (?) knickers etc until quite a large bonfire was going. The fire brigade & mounted military police arrived 
I often feel wild with myself for coming away. What wouldn't I give for a week in Adelaide now. It seems so lonely to me sometimes inspite of all the new interests, but what must it be to you. What a score will be mounted for that reunion. Goodnight Dearest. Monday night They gave us half an hour to warning for a mail to-day. I was just able to scribble a few lines on any MCAP.C. From it you may gather rumours Nos 1 & 2 A & B Corps went ashore for a route march to-day I did not go as I was on duty in a boats crew taking them ashore & bring- ing them back again. They passed through two hamlets & were greatly impressed with the cleanliness & the fertility of the soil The Greek inhabitants speak Arabic as well & the troops were greatly surprised to be greeted with 'Saida' pronounced Say eeda (Good-day) There are two Arabic words that will sure to be Australianised when we get back Saida & Imshi (equivilant to 'get out') This latter word is used to inferiors when their presence is not required A great battleship came in to-day which some of the sailors said was the 'Queen Elizabeth' that wonderful new creation 

of Jack Johnson's defeat. Quite legitimate I suppose on the ground of fighting. That snowcapped mountain I mentioned the other day was on Monday showing white only in a few ravines. Yesterday morning it was one glistening mass of white again We can see it quite distinctly from out present position. B4 has had his moustache clipped in The approved military style you remember Stewarts) It takes away that greasy Dago look he had but shows to my idea a viscious looking mouth. How I loathe that ass. He is only 32 by an Australian military book I picked up I thought he was about 40. Sunday evenings at a service Col McPhee holds he flashes an eyeglass. That is the only time it is seen for very obvious reasons no doubt. Well it's time I turned in so goodnight my little girl.  

with the 15 inch guns that was able  to fire on the Dardanelles forts whilst a mile out of range. Some Royal Marine Infantry were about to-day but I did not see them. From those that were speaking to them I gather that ramous 1,2,3 & 7 are probably true some of the marines were (ref) those referred to in 7.  About 50 had been killed. I did a bit of washing to-day as I could got plenty of hot water from the wincher it was easy work. I have overhauled all my kit & done all the mending possible. It seems strange as there is nothing I can do. It is the first time in my life I have not had something that wanted doing. It is a most unsatisfactory feeling I don't think I will let it occur again. About the war finishing in May- I am going to alter my opinion to June The Spring army will be later getting to work than I originally thought. The A sergeant of marines on board to-day thought it was sure to end by June. He had been fighting in France before coming here. He witnessed that famous charge of the London Scottish but I did not hear of his comments. 

She was one of the 1st contingent transports from Australia. A barge load of horses was re embarked this evening. They are wonderful submitting very patiently to be hauled up like inanimate cargo. It was very interesting watching them. You could just imagine them saying What the  -How the - Where the - as supported by a broad felt band reaching from their fore to hind legs they were whirled aloft. A gentle drop on to the deck a slight pause to clear the tackle & off they were led to their stalls, not a murmur nor a shiver just a querulous gaze around. I have just had a look at some of them feeding in their stalls with great gusto & quite at home, We had a trip early this evening to the shore & were dug out again at 9.30 to take round orders & some officers to the 9th landing The war news to-day says something about the Bulgar Servian incident being patched up. Sandwiched in between the Russian & French communiques is the announcement 
I have just finished reading a book of Warwick Deeping’s ‘The Rust of Rome’ Have you read it? I was neither disappointed nor enthusiastic. One passage is worth quoting "And by agnosticism he understood not that grotesque guy dressed up in misrepresentations  by theologians & petted with paradoxical squibs, but a sincerity of mind that comes from fearless & cleansing thought.' You needn't read that paragraph out to the others. I was wandering how you got on with some paragraphs in my letters; whether you ever started on some, that to say the least, would startle the hearers. I can fancy what mother would look like, & wouldn't Freda have a lot to say. What would you do, flee or blush & face it out. Wouldn't it be terrible ? It is late now & I have to be at the Gangway at 6.30 am so once more Goodnight my little girl. Wednesday Evening I thought of quite a lot to write about during the last 48 hours but most of it seems to have slipped my memory. I have struck a bonzer job. You remember that crew at Adam for rowing the Colonel around, well it has been called into 
This morning a C.P.R. boat the Lake Michagan & a P&O Branch liner flying the Australian flag came in & took up berths where we were. Second & 3rd reinforcements are supposed to be on board. I haven't decided how I am to get this book to you. Everything in the shape of diaries is prohibited from being carried about. I think the best plan will be to make a parcel of it & your letters & give them to one of the engineers to post when he gets an opportunity. I want to keep your letters but there is too much chance of losing my kit bag so the best thing is to post them with this book Later I was interrupted by word that a mail was closing this afternoon at 4 o'clock I hastily wrote. to Linda mother Lex Tom Freda & your father not forgetting C8 for you & got them in just in time Now comes word that the boat that was to take the mail to Malta is not in harbour. Part of the 4th Brigade (2nd contingent) is on those two boats that arrived this morning the Pera arrived this evening from Alexandra 
requisition again for the use of the  Brigadier Colonel & Staff & the Colonel & Adjutant It is practically the same. Rhodes & I are the only oarsmen. The six others are all men of warsmen. It has been placed in orders and we are free from every other duty. That means We miss parades, guards & fatigues of which there are plenty. Sergeant Tomlinson is in charge. We have about 2 trips a day the rest of the time to ourselves. Yesterday & today we were ashore for a few hours. The Greeks come down to the landing place with their wares in the shape of nuts, oranges Turkish Delight, cigarettes, milk, honey, butter & matches. We had quite an amusing time with them You never saw The such an assortment of wearing apparel fustian cap was in great evidence so were those funny trousers reaching to the knees with yards & yards of spare cloth between the legs. Some had primitive rawhide sandals others old boots. One pair of dapper American yellow button boots looked very comical with in conjunction with greenish khaki puttees with a red border hem and white striped blue trousers & goatskin coat, the fur inside & tanned leather outside  
lying near us, a most peculiar looking   ship. From the front she looks something   like this [[tiny drawing]] The decks except a narrow top one must be all covered   in. Probably she is designed as a protection   against aircraft The sloping sides would cause   the shells to richoch ricochet off harmlessly  To day comes news of the sinking of a Turkish   Cruiser by in the Black Sea & an account   of some irregular Bulgarians attacking a   Servian blockhouse. If Bulgaria comes in   it may materially affect the part we are going   to take.  All the nations seem to have turned mad.  We [[m] The Ionian moved in nearer the 9th   this evening quite close to the Nizam Suffolk   & Malda. The Navanah came over later so the   fleet is altogether.  Wednesday It has been as calm as a mill pond   to-day. The Malda came alongside & some of   the A.M.C. with medical stores were transferred   The brigade headquarters staff went over this morning   so it may mean the crew being dissolved,   They started shipping horses  on one of the   other boats yesterday. 
Most had blue stockings showing   beautifully shaped calves.  The umbiquitous   donkey was also in evidence.  They could   speak very little English, the natives I   mean.  One had been in Egypt and America    He knew more Arabic than we.  They are   starting to charge a bit for 'stuff but it   is our own fault for it is only human   nature to get the all you can if the buyer   is fool enough to pay it.  The tower windmills are peculiar affairs I cant    very well describe them They are something  like this [small drawing]  The little triangular patches at the end of the wings are   like little canvas jibs.  They are all used   for grinding corn & flour.  There must be   hundreds on the island.  It was quite pleasant to loll about the   grass you see there was none in Egypt   Every inch of land was cultivated so it   was really the first grass we had been   on since leaving Australia. 

 There is a kind of Cognac made on the   island.  It hasn't an unpleasant taste   & is very mild.  By the bye the Colonel has   come to light with a pint of beer both 
What do you think of Beans latest  effusions It is not a climb down  it is a horrible tumble. A typed copy  of his cable of March 1st and an letter  explanatory article he wrote has been  posted up. Even now I expect the wowsers  will still moralise. Some of the articles  & letters I have seen in the Australian  papers fill you with disgust especially  the one in the 'Mail' by a parson   with the forces. He doesn't know what  he is talking about.   Tuesday The wind dropped sufficiently to allow  the crew to take some orders ashore this morning  we had another trip to the Nizani & Malda which  are lying nearer the 9th jetty than before.  Each man has been served out with 150  rounds of ammunition. It balances the   pack better so won't make be felt much with   the load. The Franconia is expected back in   a day or two. The warships keep going & coming  One of the latest French battleships is  
days which goes very well.    There was a typed sheet of war news posted  up to day covering from the last week.  It proved rumour No6 on page 64 wrong  & 7 correct. It mentioned that owing to  the situation in the Dardanelles the troops  at present training in North Africa  were to be ready to leave at a moments  notice. Well all the troops there will not  be used. Perhaps the Aust 2nd contingent  may be but there is bound to be a   garrison kept there. I believe a force  of 40000 French will arrive within three  weeks With 40000 Australasians & 20000  various the rumoured force of 100000 would  be made up. I dont think there is much   in this rumour though  A I had a very interesting chat to one   of half a dozen sailors last night.   They have come aboard from  the Lord   Nelson to man a steam furnace leant   to tow the boats ashore. This chap was  a real cockney & a fair nut. It is  the Lord Nelson we mistook for the   Queen Elizabeth which came in today  The 'Nellie' took a very prominent part  in the bombardment of the Dardanelles  The [[Tar?]] told me a lot about it 
harbour. They buried the poor fellows  that were entombed in the watertight compartments  on Thursday. I don't know whether they   had been drowned or killed beforehand  the latter I think.  The boat has been   canted down on her stern with the bows  in the air. I don't know what the they are  doing from the tug alongside.  I have just read Crowhursts description  of the 3 days routemarch & bivouac It covers  7 pages so I wont copy it in here. Besides   it will in all probability appear in the papers  It makes me wish I had been there.   Having nothing to-do to-day I have read   'Babs the Impossible' by It is interesting   on account of the conversations & Babs   who as a child character is too impossible.   To day it has been drizzling all day.   Some days it is sunny & quite clear just like   an Australian Autumn day.  Others are   misty & the surrounding hills just visible  quite like I imagine an English atmosphere

Eighteen forts had been demolished       when they left. He was one of the crew landing  the marines that were cut up. This fort had  been settled some days previously but   bad weather had prevented any landing  party. In the meantime the Turks & Germans  had taken full advantage of the time   & entrenched themselves very strongly         besides having snipers in every available  cover, ruins etc. Evidently the [[reconnoitering??]]  seaplanes missed this. The Marines couldnt  see where the firing came from even  alot of their shells dont explode & the firing  is not very good. The 'Nellie' (nickname for  the Lord Nelson) had no difficulty in silencing  a fort with 14 inch guns though her biggest  are 12 inch. He was particularly funny  describing this fort. "All at wance them   Turks stahrted comin' aht of that fort  in hundreds rahght on top of a hill. We   gave em a salvo at abaht 8000 & gawd  blimy, when the dust cleared we had  shot the grawnd they was on away."  Somebody asked why they came out of   the fort. 'Guess it was gettin too   blamming hot in there'  The Marines caught one Turk gouging  out the eyes of one of the dead.  They caught 
him before he got away, stood him   up against a wall and literally shot pieces  out of him.  Two mine sweepers have been settled.   They are only trawlers and drag for mines  with wire ropes.  Naturally they take  a tremendous risk.  There are half a  dozen in harbour here.   A French General arrived yesterday &  inspected the camp of the 9th  We have started Bridge again.  There  is to be no stake.  I ought to be something  of a player when I get back.   All our horses are going ashore to-morrow  We have about 40 on board.   No word of the 2nd or 1st Brigade yet nor  of any mails.  I have had to rearrange my writing kit   I can get this book with a few postcards  and paper in my haversack nicely.  Your  photo is in wonderfully good order.  The  cardboard covers of the book keep it from  getting bent.  Three of the corners are gone a little  but the photo is as undamaged as the day  I got it.   Do you remember how shy you  were about showing the proof?  The tissue  envelope I still have.  I like the hazy glimpse  I can get of you through it.  I always  
