Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte
Rank: Private
Date: 23 February 1915
Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt
Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade
Nationality: Australian

Text:


Mena Camp, Cairo. Tuesday, February 23, 1915. 
My Darling Little Wife,  What a day oh what a day. Think, 10 letters & 76 papers to-night! I can't realise it. And your wonderful letter It has been well worth waiting a fortnight for It is now just after 9 and it has been was announced 2 minutes ago that a mail is being closed for Australia at 10 - a French special I suppose. So don't expect anything much. I will have to leave answering your letter until later in the week The letters were from you, 2 from Ted, Linda, Mother, Jack, Miss Hutchison, Frank Gunn, Cecil Oswald & Syd Middleton. The papers were 6 mails from Ted, which came altogether, but which he said in his letter were posted each week, and a Bulletin from someone whose writing I can't recognise There are hundreds of Bullys about all with that famous cartoon. Well to get on to the most exciting news. We are off within a fortnight Where to I cant tell. The Brigadier wouldn't say & they evidently want us to believe it is France but I have my doubts The news came yesterday evening. Of course there was excitement and cheers & bands the 9th & 11th are to go Saturday in advance the rest to follow within a week or fortnight. There are three four places we might go to. The Persian Gulf, Syria or Palestine, France, or England I hardly think the former, though we have heard nothing from that force for some time which must mean that they are not strong enough to take Bagdad or don't want to, more probably the latter. Syria I hardly think, because of something Major Brand said when lecturing another company the other day. It was about the recent Canal engagement; when we had a chance to settle the Turks completely, but were ordered not to ala, for political reasons. I will tell you more about it next letter. France it may be but they say we are to be re-equipped which could be easier done in England as well as transporting us with the others To day we have been practising billetting Streets lanes houses shops etc were marked out with flags at a suitable place near Tigers Tooth and we were hed in. There was a turnout e alarm and lectures. It wasn't interesting. We are to get boots & deficiencies in equipment to-morrow Well I am glad we are to be on the move though I should like to see more of Egypt. But we came to fight & thats what we all want to do, at least we say so, though personally I would jump for joy if peace was to be declared to-morrow. There is nothing but indignant discussions every where about Beans letter. I haven't had time to more than glance at it. It is no doubt true in the main but told in a way that seems exaggerated.  No doubt the first outline came from Headquarters. I have had several discussions with old soldiers & I think I express the general opinion of those entitled to compare, that the troops behavior, considering all circumstances, is in no better than South Africa & might be very easily, much worse. The temptations are far greater, we have been in one place for 11 weeks and taking a broad view based on a knowledge  of human nature things are better than I expected. You needn't be frightened about contagion Any infectious case is isolated immediately & we all have our own blankets which nobody else uses. Every little while there is what we call a short arm parade. When the doctor examines everyone. We had it at Morphettville. It is not really necessary as anyone who tried to escape isolation would soon be dealt with by his tent mates. I can quite understand the horror with Bean's letter would be read with narrow minded females, but if only knew of what happens in own country they would get Then again these things alw much worse in cold print I don't think it will have the effect which evidently is things better with the f cuts. They will soon exaggerated in the they won't believe now as to the co feel very wild this be misund though he den There is nothing further official. I must say I haven't given up hope altogether I haven't seen Rand from the 3rd since I last wrote. I went over to-night but he was not about. At any rate you will have heard before this letter reaches you if it eventuates. I have been reading Sladens book 'The curse of the Nile'. It gives a very fine description of the Battle of Omdurman (accent on the last syl.) The bits about Cairo are very interesting to The Maxwell mentioned as having charge of a brigade is our own Sir John Maxwell in charge of all the Egy troops in Egypt to-day. Everybody is well. My cold has gone & I am feeling in great nick. I have hardly been stiff at all after the game of lacrosse on Sunday. We are trying to set up a match for Thursday S.A. v Victoria & NSW and for Saturday, Australia v England. This early movement may alter things somewhat though. If we go to France we will be on lines if com. etc for sometime I think. There goes the 'Lights Out' Good night Darling Yours ever Tom.