Author: Tom’s Mother
Date: 10 August 1914
Location: Cortoon
Nationality: Australian

Text:

 Cortoon 10th August, 1914  My dear Tom Though Eileen writes you the news of our doings thought I would enclose  a few words to let you see you are in my thoughts. We have heard of your landing in Egypt & trust you are keeping well. Eileen received  a letter from you Monday. Needless to tell she was delighted  to get it, indeed we all enjoy hearing of you. Freda has just brought the news the English have sunk four German boats. How  gloriously exciting the  episode must have been grand you should be almost
in it yet lovely you excaped in safety. Vera Maughn & her sister are here Vera much better far from well, talks of being married in January but I do not think she will be well by then. We do not discuss war with Anna not to be surprised at George collapsed had an attack of facial paralysis was really very ill I believe it was purely a nervous trouble can you wonder? poor fellow I do pity him. He has just returned  from the Gulf trip & hopes to get to his Office next week. My chookies are [[at?]] feed shockingly expensive wheat 6/3- a bushel. I have twelve Rhode Islands of which  seven are roosters they are so docile we catch them  & pet them. I am tired of  jam making for have made Fredas as well as our ours apricots are 10/ a case & we  have had heaps for jam &  so we are fortunate Thanks to the bore the  lucern is just the thing, it is so hot today that when  I gave the fowls their green feed they audibly said  "thank you".  We have maize  as well as beans, strawberries, watermelons & potatoes  which I hope will all prove prolific crops - Freda Molly & Tom returned from Grange yesterday after a fortnights absence Molly still shows how Uncle Tom has gone 
to fight the Germans with  little fists tightly closed -  today is Grandpas 87th  birthday Mr. Champion & I are going to have tea with him so I am writing before I go as its early mail tomorrow.  Well dear, I not only think of you but pray  for you I know your thoughts  turn to this spot Eileen  & all of us.  Jack was only  wishing you & he could  go up the Murray this  Christmas.  Love dear from one & all Mother 