Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte
Rank: Private
Date: 5 December 1914
Location: Alexandria Egypt
Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade
Nationality: Australian

Text: 


H.M.A.S Ascanius Alexandria Saturday, December 5, 1914.

My Darling Little Girl,
Getting nearer our destination at last. We are bound for Meenah Mena or some place named like that right near the Pyramids about 9 miles from Cairo We are to bivouac, that is, camp in the open. We left Port Said yesterday afternoon about 4, after staying outside the harbour for a couple of days. It is difficult to remember what days certain things happened on, they all seem the same. For the life of me I couldn't tell you what day we left Aden or Suez. It was a stirring day we had in Port Said before we moved out to the anchorage . We were right at the end of the line & nearly all the ships passed us at intervals of a quarter of an hour. We had the band going & cheered each one as they passed quite close. We made enough noise to scare any disloyal Egyptian within 5 miles. The N.Z transports and the Orvieto went straight to Alexandria while the other boats were with us at the anchorage. Another batch went off Thursday night & the remainder yesterday. We are anchored in the harbour. Only 5 boats at a time can disembark, hence the delay. Our turn comes tomorrow or Monday. There must be over 30 German & Austrian merchantmen in the harbour. of With a French battleship a British cruiser, coasting steamers & ketches a mail boat or two and the transports it presents quite a busy appearance over a hundred vessels I should say. We can't see much of the city as we are the wrong end, what we can see looks quite modern. The harbour is an artificial one about 3 miles long & 1 mile wide. I liked the look of Port Said. There was nothing of the dirt you hear & read of to be seen. I am sending you some books of post cards as well as some loose ones. It caused quite a surprise to the officers being ordered to Egypt. I feel sure it was not the original intention of the authorities It may have been when we left Australia. Possibly it was waiting to hear see Turkey's intentions that caused the postponement 
of our departure that first time. There is some talk of 80 000 Territorials & Indian troops being in Egypt if so we ought to be sufficient to prevent any rising of Egyptian & Turks. It is all bunkum about a Turkish army marching overland. The power of declaring a holy war among the Mahommedans in Egypt rests with Sheikh Elislam who doesn’t quite hit it with the head shebang in Constantinople & as the average Egyptian knows which side his bread is buttered I don't think there will be much trouble here. I have been getting a good deal of information about Egypt from a corporal of the A.M.C. whom I have chummed up with. He has had some remarkable experiences. He rowed in the first schools race on the Torrens for Caterer's school against St Peters, before I was born. Davoren is his name & his people live at Crystal Brook. He went to school afterwards in England & enlisted in the Royal Army Med. Corps in the Gold Coast Raid. He went through the Soudan  campaign & has the Omdurman 
medal. He was then appointed sergeant instructor in the newly formed Egyptian Army. He spent about 10 years in Cairo & the Soudan. None of the British instructors were allowed to go to the Boer war so he missed that. It is difficult to get him to talk much but when he does it is worth listening to. You meet some rum chaps in the Army. We continued the sports yesterday afternoon. Only the tug of war was decided. A Coy were beaten by the fian final winners by 1 inch. It was the best go of the day & we are anxious to meet them again in spite of they being able to give us a stone all round. They are near all Broken Hill miners or policemen. MENA Menah is a small village on the Plateau the Pyramids are situated on and the train terminus for the service to the Pyramids. It The spot the division will be camped on has been a camping ground at various times for the Egyptian Army It is a hard sandy soil the corporal tells me. I suppose we wont see much of Alexan- dria when we land. The trains run right on to the wharf we will discharge from. The New Zealanders will be stationed at a place between Cairo & Alexandria I hear. We hear very little of how the war is progressing. We got one or two papers at Port Said but none here. They won't allow any bum boats near us worse luck. I saw several to-day with some very nice oranges on. The tucker is not quite as good as when we started but still streets ahead of Morphettville. There is one dish I absolutely long for, ham & eggs. I haven't tasted them since we left. It is no wonder sailors always rush them when ashore. I feel like having 6 serves the first chance I get. I am sure this boat is fated. Last night we were awakened by the siren & the sound of reversed engines. I sat up half asleep waiting for the alarm bell to ring, but as it didn't I went to sleep again. Some boat crossed our bows rather closely. I am disappointed with the present view of Alexandria. I want to see everything Eastern instead of modern & palatial. [*Sunday afternoon*] Great excitement. We are going into the wharf at 4 o'clock. I have been picked in a party of 6 from each company to proceed to Cairo immediately to act as advance baggage guard or something. We have to be ready very soon so I will close this letter on the chance of being able to post it soon. I don't know anything about the mails. I will write by the next mail. Good night little girl. With great love from Tom.

T. A. Whyte
No.47 A Coy  10th Battalion  3nd Brigade 1st Australian  Division Egypt