Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte
Rank: Private
Date: 11 February 1915
Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt
Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade
Nationality: Australian

Text:


Mena Camp, Cairo.
February 11, 1915.

Thursday  It was quite a letter carnival on
Tuesday.  There were your two very nice
letters of 7th & 14th of Jan. one each from Jack,  Leith Napier, & 
Dave Blyth and a post card from a Mr Devoy
in Brisbane an old friend of mine.  Your
letters took me quite a long while to
read.  You are very good to send such
long ones  You can't imagine how welcome
they are.  You were quite right to lend George
my sweater.  I am glad to hear he has joined
It is back luck about Algy.  The S.A. second
L.H. did not leave with the others so I suppose
it is all up the flue with him though if he
he had a good Colonel he would have got him
out of it.
I know very well you have made those
pillow shams for a double bed.  If it satisfies
you to know I would sooner not get married
than have single beds.  However healthier it
would be. I could never think much of
the couple who decided on single beds.
A few nights in Egypt would convert
anyone  How glad we are sometimes we
have four blankets.  I think I would like to hear about your dresses.  I can
hardly remember any you used to wear.  It
seems so long ago.  Get another blouse like that
white silk one with the red buttons.  The one
you wore first at that party of Freda's was
my favourite I think.  Lex is over the
odds.  That address should have found
him though.  I dont remember if it was
No 7 A.M.P. Blds:, but A.M.P. Buildings, Pitt St
is right.  I will write to him this week
& tell him what I think of him.  Last
time I wrote I got into told him you
had not received an acknowledgement
of the photo; but expected that it had been
sent before the letter reached him.  It is
funny I have not heard from him since
leaving Adelaide though I have written
twice.
I saw that drawing in the Sydney mail
of the camp.  It is very amusing.  The
Sphinx is not in sight from here at
all nor is the 3rd pyramid.  The tents
are about 100 times the number & placed
quite differently.  There are at least 100 tents
to a battallion of infantry & with 12 battallions 
and all the A.S.C, A.M.C., L.H. Artillery, Ammunition
Column, Hospitals, Engineers etc., you can
quite believe that a couple of miles are quite 
covered with them.
For goodness sake don't ever talk about being
silly over anything.  I have always thought you
the most sensible & levelheaded person I know.
 It makes me wild when you say what you
did in your last letter.  Don't think that I
ever regret anything you have ever done
You have always been my charming
lovely angel so dont spoil it by
talking about being foolish at any time.
We have had some lovely times together
& will have plenty more so dont worry
about regretting anything.  That idea of
Mrs Stones of the 5/- a week-afternoon -
Girl is very sensible. When I think of remember
Freda's first months I always think
it would have been much happier for
her if she had more to. occupy her.
The mustard pot is a very good idea
for my birthday  I hope you have managed
it.  I did not realise my birthday was so
near until I read your reference to it
Fancy only a day more than a week 
off.
I for one don't believe that yarn about
Kitchener saying the war would commence
in May.  If he did he meant it as
a blind as the reinforcements will have 
made their presence felt long before
that.
I got quite a shock to read your inventory
of the additions to the glory box  Wherever
have you got them all?  I think we will
have to adopt Vera Waughans idea &
get them stored.
There so^will be no leave this week so I have
nothing to tell you about Cairo.
Our next days leave is Wednesday
The dates are arranged so that each
company happens to be off any brigade
or divisional duty.
We have had a very mixed lot of
work this week Monday a holiday. Tuesday
field practise, Tuesday night & Wednesday
on guard, today striking of tents, airing
of blankets, battalion drill and night
outpost work all night.  I have managed
to get out of the latter through a slight
cold.  I made it out to be a lot worse
than it is & I wanted to write to you
& get a bit of sleep after the guard.
There are a lot of colds about, nearly as
bad as it was at Morphettville.  Quite
an unusual amount of pneumonia is
prevalant.  The doctors are puzzled over
it  I have not heard of one case of 
typhoid, which is remarkable.  Perhaps
it is the inoculation.  Authorities say that
visitors to Egypt who have not been
inoculated are very subject to it.
Monday four of us paid a visit to the
Citadel.  It was most interesting we
paid a visit to several of the mosques
in the vicinity.  There are 366 in Cairo.
They have all a certain similarity.
Of course the old ones are the most
interesting.  However I will have to
refer you again to the guide books.
They have a lot more than we noticed.
The citadel will is also very fully dealt
with.  At present some Lancastershire
Terriers are garrisoned there & it is a
hospital.  We saw the Indian wounded
arrive from the Canal  They were very
interesting when you could get one
to talk to.  One little A.M.C. Ghurka was
a very finely built chap with quite
a Japanese type of feature.  We persuaded
him to show his kukris an awfully
murderous looking weapon Wide in
the blade with a very sharp edge and
point.  I can quite understand why the
Deutchers fear them.
There is a beautiful view of Cairo from 
one of the parapets  We saw the place
where that middle ages Johnny leaped
on his horse to escape the treachery of
some Mohammedan ruler.  It looks
feasible but improbable Again I
refer you to the guide books.  We
went in in the tram with a Terrier
who was quite decent sized & interesting
The fare from the Citadel to the Central
Tram Station, about a mile, is 2
milliemes for soldiers; fancy a halfpenny farthing 
for a mile.  The Tommy told us several
things that opened our eyes.  Before
the Australians came they were able
to get oranges 6 & 7 for a half piastre; eggs
8 for a piastre and lots of other things
much cheaper than we pay.  The cute
niggers shove their prices up for
newcomers.  Tomatoes have come
down in price lately but not quite
as far as the Tommies price of ten
for a half piastre.
Coming back we passed a wedding party
The bride and bridegroom were mounted on a
camel most gorgeously dressed with
coloured drapings.  They were screened from
the rude public gaze by a calico box
about a dozen other camels with the rest
of the party followed. They were kicking up a most horrible noise, it was more like a funeral. Sunday I seem to have hardly time to continue this letter until now. Just after finishing this on Thursday evening we got news of Fordhams death. It came as a shock as we understood  he was getting better. And it was smallpox and in its worst form. How it was his brother got the news that contradicted smallpox goodness only knows. No1 Platoon with the band all went to the funeral party on Friday. We left here at 9 o'clock. Twelve were the firing party, six including me, pallbearers, & the rest formed the party with Lieut Hosking in charge. We were taken in a special tram right through Cairo to Abbassia near Heliopolis. Then began a long search for the Infectious Diseases Hospital. We marched a mile along the Heliopolis road to the Egyptian Army Hospital, as that was not the one back we marched a mile & a half then cut off to the left up a bit of a hill past some brick works & the Abbassia cow barn & found the Hospital. It was then 1 o'clock. We had brought no lunch with us so the matron & the doctor two very fine French people, soon prepared some tea & bread & butter. We very soon eat them out so tucked into some Arab bread. It is dark in appearance shaped like a large pancake & somewhat heavy & sour in taste. It was very filling. There was no gun carriage so a hearse that looked as if it ought to have been burned too, had been requisitioned. It was a ricketty wooden affair with an almost collapsing wooden cross on top. The whole was painted a most billious bilious looking yellow & brunswick black. After putting a Union Jack over the coffin and a new hat & belt & bayonet on top, off we started. The band played the Dead March for half a mile while we stepped in slow time. First line came the firing party in file marching with reversed arms; then the band followed by the hearse with 3 pallbearers each side. Behind it Fordhams brother then Hosking & the others. There were not many people about except a lot of delighted fellaheen kids whom the undertaker was swearing at most volubly in Arabic. After the band had finished we broke into an ordinary march & kept going for two & a half hours without a stop on  black asphalt roads right through Cairo on th through the old Roman Aqueduct past the outskirts of Cairo & to the Protestant Cemetery. It must have been 7 or 8 miles. I forgot to tell you we were headed by a mounted Egyptian policeman who evidently, wanted to impress his pals as he took us a roundabout way through the main streets of Cairo when the shortest lay nearer the river. The parson was not there so Hosking had to read the service while we all stood round & the firing party leaned on their reversed rifles. Then 3 volleys were fired & 3 of the band played the Last Post. We then marched across the Abbass II Bridge to Ghiza & caught a tram for home reaching it about 6. It was a hot day & the roads gave us hell. Poor Fordham was never popular but he had never been cursed as he was that day. It is a shame to say anything against the dead but I don't think there was anyone who liked him. He was the biggest liar I ever knew. Even his brother who seems quite a decent youngster, said so. I am telling you this so that you can understand why I felt like I did all through. The only ones I feel at all sorry for are his brother who has shown himself quite calm all through and his parents in S.A. His father is a broker & probably well known to your father. Where he caught the smallpox no one knows. The doctor at the hospital told me it was the worst form, confluent eruptions all over the body, and there was no hope from the first. They got out of him that he had missed vaccination at on the boat. No one vaccinated could ever get it like that. How he missed is hard to say. He may have wiped it off just after being done. Apart from vaccinating A Coy & disinfecting our tent no precautions have been taken. Mickey Smith has worn his hat since he was the day he was taken to the hospital with influenza. All our vaccinations have taken in mild forms. Dr Nott says that shows we are practically immune. It is now over three weeks since Fordham was first taken to the hospital & no case has been reported so I suppose there is no risk now. Hosking promised to do his best to get us off parade Saturday. He was 
successful until the 10th were ordered  to make an attack on a position near the pyramids for the benefit of Divisional Headquarters so out we had to go. We must have done well as the General congratulated the Colonel & all the officers seemed pleased. I was up on my first crime sheet yesterday afternoon. Thursday morning I had to wait some time to get a shave & when I came down the Coy had just fallen in. Gertie spotted me & put in a sheet. I had no hope of getting out of it so pleaded guilty & got 24 hours C.B. As I knew the sergeant & corporal of the guard I got out of reporting every half hour so I haven't been caused the slightest inconvenience. C.B includes half an hours pack drill at 4.30 but as to-day is Sunday I miss that also. No further official news about the commissions though the Engineers are supposed to have heard that the hundred or two recommended in the division have all been accepted except theirs more latrinograms I suppose that is what we call these rumours. Don't repeat that word in case you dont know the meaning of latrine Brigade operations is the order this week. Next week it is to be Divisional Operations & then there is talk of a slackening in the work. The first brigade started off on a four days route march & bivouac on Friday. We passed them moving off north towards Memphis, on our way going  to the funeral. Well what do you think of the Canal business now. The 7th & 8th came back the other day not having fired a shot much to their disgust. The New Zealanders had a couple killed and a few wounded pure bad luck they say. My engineer friend told me some very interesting news. In the Turks first attack you remember they were allowed to start erecting a pontoon bridge. Well the position was something like this
A represents the entrenched British positions B is a canal the engineers dug & C the ground they left to keep it from flooding D is the position the Turks entrenched 
themselves in while they were trying to bridge the canal at E, while a desultory fire was kept up by the entrenched British and from some canal tugs and cruisers, which had been mounted with 4" guns. When they thought the Turks had gone far enough the point at C was cut & the tugs came right up to the position F where they were able to so enfilade the Turks that they were practically wiped out in the trenches. The rest were cut off while the pontoons were blown to blazes. In the second attack they had something of the same thing except using redoubts & when the Turks had advanced to the Canal the Egyptian artillery blew them to bits from a concealed position on the other side of the Canal. The latest information  is that about 1000 dead Turks have been found which would mean roughly 5000 wounded or approximately 7000 casualties out of their estimated force of 15,000. No wonder they have gone back. The prisoners are most horribly clad. Boots in pieces & out of date equipment. They seem to have forced a lot of Bedouins & Syrians into service. A lot of the Ghurka wounded have their hands cut through seizing the Turks' bayonets 
when they charged preparatory to using  those murderous looking knives on them. There has not been the least sign of excitement either here or in Cairo From the behaviour of the Cairenes you could not possibly imagine that Egypt was concerned in any war. Eric Isaacsin was out here yesterday He is looking very well. The 10% Reinforcements  have all been drafted into the different companies We have two in our section. A chap named Clark who was in A Coy at Mophetville but kept back on account of illness & a chap named Pritchard We are trying to get up a Lacrosse match with the Terriers. They evidently have some crosses here as there was notice of a match in yesterdays papers between Lancastershire & Cheshire representative from the E. Lancas. Fusiliers. Time is flying and we are parading extra early to-morrow so I will end by saying goodnight darling. Your ever loving Husband Tom 