Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte
Rank: Private
Date: 19 February 1915
Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt
Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade
Nationality: Australian

Text:

Mena Camp, Cairo.  February 19, 1915.
  My Dear Little Girl,  There seems something familiar   about the date to-day. I had almost forgotten  but & only remembered this afternoon when we  came in. Fancy me 29 It seems terribly   old. An interesting coincidence is that   to-day we complete six months service  & are now all soldiers in the full sense  of the word Until today we were only   recruits. All the Citizen Force boys in  this force will not be compelled to do  any more, training in Australia; they have completed  six months continuous service. The   subalterns who had not received their  second star were all promoted to first  lieutenants to-day  No mail again this week. What a   terribly long week it is now, only one  day in 14 to look forward to.  I am not sure if a mail leaves from  here this week. The papers publish  no information & our brigade Post Office   know nothing; they only make up the   mails & send them into Cairo on Monday where they are forwarded by at the first  opportunity. I believe there are only  3 mails a week to Australia now but  when they go I don't know.  We have had quite an interesting week  of Brigade manoeuvres. It has been advancing  attacks defences retirements & night work.  Tuesday we had a light day & at 7 we  went out on an advance, attack and assault   on a position at 'Tigers Tooth' an  outcrop of several sharp pointed small  hills where the 3rd Brigade ranges  are. The Brigadier gave us a very  difficult formation to advance with  & we evidently carried it out to his satisfaction  as he sent us in at 2 o'clock  instead of 6 as was originally intended  and said we had carried out movements  that could only have been done by   well trained troops. Our manoeuvres are  interesting as we always have an   enemy in the shape of flags which  either represent a platoon or company   Different coloured flags represent  superior fire, equal fire, weaker fire,  cavalry etc. Heliograph flashes represent  the different kinds of fire by the enemy   & kettle  drum rattles, machine gun fire If it is an advance & a red flag  shows, we cannot move forward until  steps have been take to overcome it  by moving in reinforcements & of course  this must be done without weakening   any of the line sufficiently for the   enemy to go pierce it. F Thursday   & to-day the manoeuvres were carried  out on a new ground to us, the  other side of the pyramids. It is  similar to the cam desert at on   this side except that it is not quite  so hilly. Yesterday we marched in  going right alongside the Pyramids  & past Mena House on to the camp road  or 'Canberra St.' as it sign posts name   it.  Next week we have Divisional Training  & then I believe we slacken off a lot.  We may have a four days bivouac  like the 1st Brigade; but nothing has  been rumoured about it. I don't   think we are likely to move from  here for sometime. There have been  three cases altogether of smallpox  none of them recent but I hardly think  they would move us until a quarantine  time had passed from the last case. 
Wednesday was our leave day  but all the Brigade had vaccination  parade. All who had not taken sufficiently  to show marks were done again. This  is not really necessary but they  evidently were taking no risks. I  was done again but up to now there   have been no signs. We were the  last company to go through at about  3 o'clock. Poor Harry Nott looked   quite fed up, he had been at it from   8 o'clock. We were then free to go  to Cairo. I didn't find anything new  Several of us had a bonzer dinner  at the Restaurant Parisien. We always  have afternoon tea at Groppis or Saulto  two celebrated 'Confiserie Cafes' I think  I told you about the wonderful creations  you select yourself from the glass cases  before you go into the tables. Wednesday   was evidently not reckoned as a holiday  as we are to get from 10 to 10:30 tomorrow  Last Post has gone so I may not be able  to continue until Sunday.  Saturday afternoon I have not been into  Cairo after all 'mafeesh filoose', no money, or   at least not enough to make it  worth while. I have found from experience. 
that you need at least 50 piastres to  enjoy yourself in town. Instead I went for a trip round the Pyramids. Blackburn Jack Gordon & I climbed Cheops. It is not extra hard. The view is magnificent One side you see the Nile Valley, fertile as any land can possibly be, about turn, and nothing but the desert. I can't imagine a more vivid contrast The whole camp is in view from the top and very regular and large it looks. The biggest surprise was the result of some excavations between the [[triangle symbol for pyramid]] & the camp that we cannot see from the ordinary level as there seems to be sand hills right round it. I believe they are all ancient tombs & graveyards. An American syndicate have the rights & as it is all out of bounds we have not been able to visit them. Sunday Evening. On Saturday I wen afternoon I had a swim in the baths & then went out to the Heliopolis Sporting Club with others to get some Crosses. A Lancaster Territorial Regiment had lent us 15 sticks so we went out to get them. This Regiment the 6th has about 60 Lacrosse players. and Manchester is very strong in the game and most of the best players enlisted in a bunch. 
We got wind of Lacrosse being played in Egypt by the notice in a paper of a match. We promptly wrote a letter to them asking them for a loan of sticks which they were kind enough to do. They were very anxious to meet an all Australian team as they had practically an all England team. We got their letter on Thursday so posted a notice in the mess sheds straight away calling a meeting to form a 10th Battalion Lacrosse Club. Fifteen turned up. Captain Nott was elected to the chair. The Officers elected were Patron Col. Weir. (We thought of electing Lord Kitchener) President Cap. Nott; Vice presidents Major Hurcombe & Lieut Eric Talbot-Smith (an old player) Captain your humble servant Vice Captain Serg Gordon Secy & Treas. RH White and the usual committee of 5 & selection committee of 3. We arranged a match for to-day with the 9th (Queensland.). It took place this afternoon on a ground along- side the train terminus. They were very weak but had several Victorians to help them. The Terriers had arranged to come out at 3.30 with 9 more sticks to make up the 24 needed. They did not arrive until after 4 so we started with 7 on our side & 8 on theirs. We quickly threw 6 goals so I got our chaps to hang off a bit & give them a chance At half time the scores were 8-4. Before we started the rest of the sticks arrived so we both had full teams. We finished at 11 to 1. For next Thursday we are trying to arrange a match with the Victorians & next Saturday the 3rd Brigade V Manchester if we can get leave. I expect I will be very stiff to-morrow but I don't feel tired yet. There was a chap from the 3rd came over to see me to-day about lacrosse matters Incidentally he was able to give me some very useful information about those commissions. He has a friend, a major, attached to Divisional Headquarters The information is as follows. A batch of 42 Australians will go to England within a fortnight He is one of them A second batch of about double the number a little later & then a third. He is finding out to-morrow if our 5 are among any of them. He thinks he remembers Blackburns name in the second. Our little crowd will be getting smaller Phil Robin was appointed a lance corporal in No 4 Platoon Mickey Smith will probably be transferred to a position on Brigade Headquarters which Lieut Holmes got for him recommended him for I don't know exactly what it is but at anyrate he will be pleased to get out of Beevors clutches I think you know we arranged to keep together & not take any non coms positions but only commissions if offered. Of course this thing the 5 of us put in for broke all that up so Phil & Mickey were free to put in for their positions. A couple of photos were taken to-day & if they are any good I will try & get copies for you. I expect there will be plenty in the S.A papers about the match to-day as Rhodes Du Rien & the others have all been writing long accounts of it some of which are sure to find their way into the papers. You will have to be satisfied with a short letter this week as there seems to be a lack of news & as I want to write several more letters to-night. Everything is all right darling. I still think of you all day long. The evenings are the best as when I am lying in bed I always smoke a cigarette & think hard of you. Good night my darling Angel. Yours for- ever Tom.