
Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte
Rank: Private
Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade
Nationality: Australian

Text:  astounded to hear of the splendid additions to the glory box It was very kind of them all. I am sorry my Christmas present could not be fixed up in time; but there is a hitch somewhere. Perhaps it has by now, but I won't spoil it by telling you about it. couple I still have a few couple of the first & second lot of handkerchiefs left. The linen ones you marked. When writing to Feo last week & a month ago, I forgot to say anything about his birthday which must be passed by now. I can only be sure of one, the 24th of May. I never could remember birthdays. I am sorry that Colombo letter had not turned up. I think I told you in that, it was only a minor sore on my shin. The last Friday night (wh before leaving Adelaide (I will always remember that night) when we did that famous stunt from Belair, I struck it against a rail on the way to Long Gully station Being on the shin there was no flesh to help it heal. It was never troublesome enough to cause even a limp. Don't trouble about me keeping anything back. I will always tell you if anything is the slightest bit wrong, Mind you do too. I am glad to hear you are going out a bit. It is very kind of Feo. There is some talk of a fortnightly mail only from Australia after the arrival of that last one. Well I can last out I think, if they are all as nice as the one received yesterday. There are all sorts of rumours about the 3rd Brigade having a turn at Ishmalich We are supposed to be moving at the end of the week. Something definite will be known before this letter is posted. This morning the whole of this brigade had a surprise turnout at 5 o'clock It does not start to get light until just before the sun rises at 6 o'clock. We all had to fall in in full marching order & were marched just outside the camp in the half lighted dawn. After a short halt we were marched back again. Breakfast was early & we H Coy left at 8 for the ranges. We only had 10 shots at 700 yards in collective platoon fire & 10 shots at moving targets at the same range. The hits on the fixed targets were 4 for the whole platoon which they say is fair. 500 shots & 4hits. It makes you think a lot of your chance in the real thing. In S. Africa it took 700 bullets to hit a man. I was practically deaf after the first third round + the sand dust clouded the targets. It is a peculiar experience lying close together with an incessant roar of musketry. There is no noticeable smoke from the cordite cartridges, but the noise, when so close, is deafening A dozen yards away it doesn't sound much at all. I think it must be the violent action of the explosive on the air, that tends to deafen you. Thursday Nothing move reliable about our moving Today we had more advanced musketry Platoons were lined up, doubled 50 yards in sections + fired 3 rounds per man at small plates about 300 yds. Each section of from 8 to 10 men had 8 plates I think I told you our section contained all our old Morphettville tent with Jack Gordon as section commander We got the 8 targets down with one shot to spare which brought down a plate on No 2 section. It was a record for the company & we are entitled to shoot off for a prize offered by Col. Wei[[er?]] for the best section of the battalion. Being more or less of a fluke & 7 or 8 other sections getting the same result, I don't think much of our chance. 'Gertie' (Lieut. Hosking) shouted us a pint of beer all round. I don't think I told you our section is known as the 'Jelly bellies'.  Most of the others being of a slightly different class, are inclined to resent any differences that commanding officers may show. It is only human nature. We get on very well with them however. I have heard a rumour to- night that there might be 
some truth in. The first + second brigade are to go to Ishmalia & we are to be held back for reserves, whenever they may want us. There have been a couple of brushes with patrols some way the other side of the canal but the papers are making a lot out of them. I think the Turks are trying to cause a diversion so as to keep a large number of troops an Egypt. It is fairly easy for small parties to wander about the desert causing alarms, but the transport of an army is a different thing.  A hundred men could keep themselves supplied for a couple of months with 50 camels but they haven't the camels for an army. Friday [underlineWe are gradually getting more advanced in our work. More fixing to-day & night manouvres. Last night about 2 we had a turnout & were all back in bed by in half an hour. Major Brand told us we would get 24 hours notice before moving. Mjr. B4 has gone to Alexandria for 3 or 4 days to superintend the return of 'unfits' from the Division. I don't know how many will go from the 10th Fisher's father arrived last night. He is on his way back to Australia. I went in to the Grand Continental Hotel to see him as Fisher could not get off until this evening. I knew him immediately. He turns out to be a great pal of Max Anderson's. We have often seen him often, on the terrace going into the Adelaide Club. A tall st inclined-to-be-stout man with a slight limp, full faced & cleanshaven, with a walking stick & gold rimmed spectacles Frank Fisher, of Fisher & Culross, lawyers Surely you remember him. He shouted me a drink & a cigar & made a general fuss of me. A lady who heard us talking about the camp came up & asked me how the best way to get a letter or telegram to a private in the 5th battalion her, nephew. As letters sometimes take 2 days + telegrams go astray, when handled by natives; I said I would be only to happy to be the bearer. She turned out to be Lady Nora Fitzgerald & had come out in the paid some money owing to me. I was not in the usual impecunious state. From 1.30 to 5 was spent in the Museum with Blackburn. W I had time to take a glance at everything but there were no guides or English books to be had. I haven't the time to describe it. I can only say it was one of the most enjoyable afternoons, I have spent. If you are interested in it. you will be able to find plenty of descriptions in the Adelaide P.L. which is rich in Egyptologian works. They would tell you far more than I could. I can quite imagine the buildings costing nearly £200,000. After dinner we went down the monski a bazaar between the styles of Arab & European. There are some gorgeous things there. I made a few purchases which I have posted. In one parcel are a couple of cushion covers not very well done, but cheap & typical. The pink & white one has the late Khedive's monogram in the centre. This is always used on coins in place of a head The Arabic round the sides is 'Mashalla' 'God always will help you'The peculiar signs in the corners are ancient Arabic 'Good Luck' signs. The green, pink and brown one has an Arabic inscription meaning 'God will save your parents. Another parcel contains some beaten brass ash trays etc. The inscriptions are all ordinary Arabic salutations. What I prize most of all is in the first parcel. Genuine Egyptian antiquities I purchased at the museum. They have a sale room where their surplus stock is on sale. The f statuette was found in a toomb, dating 500 B.C. The Egyptian name of it is 'Ushabti' meaning 'answerer' It is one of many servants placed to wait on the mummy I won't tell you the cost. It was so infinitis- imal you wouldn't value it. The same applies to the little box of wheat found in a toomb at Dair-el- Bahari. 'The North Convent) near Lonxor. It was placed there 1500 B.C. The best of it all is I know they are bothe absolutely genuine.
We had supper at a French restaurant after a good look round. We passed by Napoleons house. To-day was company leave day. Half a dozen of us spent the afternoon at the Zoo. It is most beautifully laid out It will be fully described in a guide book. The grotto was wonderful and a view of the whole gardens obtainable from the top. The most recent additions are a couple of kangaroos presented by A.M.C. of the Australians. We dug up a few more places in Cairo we had not seen had tea & I came home early to finish this letter. I am afraid I won't have time to write to your mother I am getting to enjoy each trip into Cairo more than ever. I can't express my feelings about it. You can't describe it, you must be there & feel it. I can understand now why they talk of the 'feel of the East' I would not like to live in Cairo. It would only be for a holiday. You don't see any middle class houses in Egypt. It is all the French method of 'pensions' or flats Some of the richer class houses are magnificent but there is a lot of similarity of design. I am enclosing some photos Mrs Robin took on their honeymoon. She had intended them for her sister (hence the writing) but gave them to me. I won have not been able to get any of the wedding yet but am promised some in time to next weeks mail. Mrs Honeywill & Mrs Robin are staying here until Feb 17th. Well the best news of all I had my mo. shaved off this morning. I will get my photo taken on post cards this week. There goes the 'Last Post' which is mail closing time so I haven't time for any more. Goodnight darling. I am loving you all I can. Ever so much more than in S.A. Goodnight my little girl
Your ever loving boy Tom. 