Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte
Rank: Private
Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt
Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade
Nationality: Australian

Text:

him before he got away, stood him   up against a wall and literally shot pieces  out of him.  Two mine sweepers have been settled.   They are only trawlers and drag for mines  with wire ropes.  Naturally they take  a tremendous risk.  There are half a  dozen in harbour here.   A French General arrived yesterday &  inspected the camp of the 9th  We have started Bridge again.  There  is to be no stake.  I ought to be something  of a player when I get back.   All our horses are going ashore to-morrow  We have about 40 on board.   No word of the 2nd or 1st Brigade yet nor  of any mails.  I have had to rearrange my writing kit   I can get this book with a few postcards  and paper in my haversack nicely.  Your  photo is in wonderfully good order.  The  cardboard covers of the book keep it from  getting bent.  Three of the corners are gone a little  but the photo is as undamaged as the day  I got it.   Do you remember how shy you  were about showing the proof?  The tissue  envelope I still have.  I like the hazy glimpse  I can get of you through it.  I always have it on the back of the previous page  when I am writing I never get tired of  looking at it.  I am afraid I have neglected   the profile one.  That is in my kit bag  with your letters.  I don't like it half as  well as the one Freda called affected  The best light to look at it in is artificial.   It looks most natural then.  I feel awfully  ashamed  I haven't had a decent photo to  send you yet.   Thursday March 11th  We have had quite a pleasant  day.  This morning we took the Colonel & party  ashore near the 9th camp for a court  martial.  I was quite surprised to find  round a little point a tiny jetty. Quite a decent sized village.  We can see part  of it from the Ionian but most is  hidden by the little hill that runs out to  the point.  The 9th camp is on the hill   The heads were away for several hours  so after we had lunch we had a stroll.   A well made road led from the jetty  winding through the group of 50 or so houses that  formed the village.  There were two or three  cafes where you could get Turkish coffee,  Cognac, a dark sour weak wine, rum &  English lager beer.  Needless to say we  sampled the Tennants Lager and found it 
very refreshing.  Most of the houses are  two storeyed & well build of stone.  A peculiar  shaped tile forms the roof.  The tiles are  semicircular and are laid like this    There was the same variety of dress.   The women were all of a clear cur similar  type & wore the white cloth round their  heads ears & chins looking for all the world  like a corpse with the chin tied up.   The old women are nearly as good looking  as the young.  Babies were very numerous.   A finely built Greek Orthodox Church  looked magnificent among these rural  surroundings  Some of us went inside   The Greek priest in his funny cap &   gown gave us a taper each which we  lit & stuck in an urn containing  sand.  The thing that one noticed most  was the absence of seats or pews.  The interior  was richly decorated in blue tints with plenty  of well painted panels of the saints.  A tall  beautifully carved preaching desk (I forget  the correct name) was particularly noticeable   On a specially carved lecturn was a painting  of the Madonna & Child that looked very  old probably medaeval?.  I don't know  what the burning of the tapers signified  at any rate we didn't show our appreciation 
75 by placing anything in the alms box   which was in a prominent position.   The villages are really out of bounds but  of course the Colonels crew would be excepted.   Over the other side of the hill on the beach  below the 9th camp is tiny quaint brick  church about 8ft x 12 ft by 7ft high.  It is  evidently dis not in use.  A niche in one  wall evidently formed the altar.  The rafters  were very old and wormeaten.  There was a little  glass bowl in a bracket with sanctuary  oil & floats in it.  On the other side was  an iron spiked arrangement with bits of  rags on it.  I wonder if it is a superstition  similar to one often seen in Ireland near  wells?  The harbour is very busy.  Super Dreadnoughts  Cruisers, Destroyers, Torpedo boats, Trawlers  (for mine sweeping), Submarines, Supply  ships (coal, oil & provisions) Pinnaces &  Picquet boats and a dozen or so transports.   There are 5 boats wi for the 3rd Brigade   [[*c3403 S.A.R. EXPEDy. FORCE MORPHETTVLE  TO ADELAIDE  2nd RETURN  Free of charge  S.A.R.  EXPEDy. FORCE  ADELAIDE*]]  The Ionian, Malda,           Nizam & Davanah.  There are 6 'Castle' lin        with Royal Marine  Light Infantry & s            etails and  a couple of French Transports.  When we  were ashore we saw of party of Frenchman  with their greenish khaki blue overcoats 
c3403 S.A.R. EXPEDy. FORCE MORPHETTVLE  TO ADELAIDE  2nd RETURN  Free of charge  S.A.R.  EXPEDy. FORCE  ADELAIDE 

by placing anything in the alms box   which was in a prominent position.   The villages are really out of bounds but  of course the Colonels crew would be excepted.   Over the other side of the hill on the beach  below the 9th camp is tiny quaint brick  church about 8ft x 12 ft by 7ft high.  It is  evidently dis not in use.  A niche in one  wall evidently formed the altar.  The rafters  were very old and wormeaten.  There was a little  glass bowl in a bracket with sanctuary  oil & floats in it.  On the other side was  an iron spiked arrangement with bits of  rags on it.  I wonder if it is a superstition  similar to one often seen in Ireland near  wells?  The harbour is very busy.  Super Dreadnoughts  Cruisers, Destroyers, Torpedo boats, Trawlers  (for mine sweeping), Submarines, Supply  ships (coal, oil & provisions) Pinnaces &  Picquet boats and a dozen or so transports.   There are 5 boats wi for the 3rd Brigade   The Ionian, Malda, Suffolk Nizam & Davanah.  There are 6 'Castle' liners in with Royal Marine  Light Infantry & sundry details and  a couple of French Transports.  When we  were ashore we saw of party of Frenchman  with their greenish khaki blue overcoats

76   & ugly French military caps.    War boats are constantly leaving and coming  & it is difficult to keep count of them  The most noteworthy are the Queen Elizabeth  the Inflexible (of Falkland Island fame)  the Lord Nelson, Indominatable & AE2  Submarine from Australia.  There is an are two Admirals [?], a rear & a vice  Today the French General & a couple of   his staff paid an official visit on board   The only gaudy thing about him was his   cap all gold & red braidwork & lace fancifully   coloured. His only decoration was the  Legion of Honour medal & ribbon which  he seemed very proud of. We turned out a   guard of honour & the band.  Friday March 12 I was called away last night   at 8 when I was writing. We went round   to the Brigade boats with the orders for the  brigade training to-day. When we came back  there was a mouthful of whiskey waiting   for each of us.  A mail left yesterday. I was able to get   much more th in than should have by  getting Captain Green to censor it instead  of my own Corp. Commander. I can't   relish Beaver censoring any of my letters.  From C3 you may be able to gather that 
77  All is well & 40000 French troops are arriving  in 3 weeks time.  They have to close the mail  a day before it leaves on account of the   Censoring I noticed it still lying in the  mail room so it may not go for a day or  two  A couple of large liners in their grey war  paint arrived during the night.  It looks  like the Canadian flag they are flying.  A hospital ship, the 'Soudan' also arrived  I don't know who is on board or where  she comes from.  She looks very pretty  painted white with a broad green band  right round her intersected, with 3 large  red crosses on each side.  Saturday afternoon Intercepted again last  night.  This evening now looks like a  regular thing. However we dont mind  We would sooner be on this game than  any other.  This morning we took the  Brigadier & staff to the 'Frankonia' one  of the yesterdays arrivals.  She is a large  Cunnard liner.  The other big one is the  Royal George a Canadian Northern Railway  boat.  Both have Naval Brigades on board  I think this is the branch George & Guthrie  belong to.  They have a lot of naval reserve  men among them.  They say about 10000  are coming here.   The last day or two has been a bit cold   but not too cold to sleep on deck.  The past 3 days the official war communiques   have been posted up. Things seem to be progressing  in the Dardanelles.  The tucker has not been very varied lately  You see the boat was leaving Alexandria Pt Said for  England when she was stopped & sent to  Alexandria & took us on board next day  They had no chance of victualling her properly  so bully beef has been our main diet  lately. The butter is a bit rancid. To-day  for dinner we got quite a surprise with  some beautiful rice soup, tender beef and potatoes  & bread & jam. The bread is always good  freshly baked each night. Jam & cheese  will be served regularly each *other day now.  There has been no complaint as most  recognise that it is inevitable. Thank  goodness the bully has been very good  but you get awfully sick of it.  A boat load of men got ashore the other  night. What for goodness only knows. They  got each 10 days field punishment. For two  hours *each day they are tied up to waggon wheels  & spend the rest of the time in the detention  room. Naturally discipline will be very
strict now.  There are 6 Castle liners in now with  Marines & Naval Brigade men on board  All the horses have been taken ashore  There is plenty of green feed & they seem   to be enjoying themselves   Sunday Evening, I wouldn't have swopped   places with the King to-day. Just think  of it We have been all round the   Queen Elizabeth & all over a submarine  Right down in her & the B11 at that  the ? identical one that made history   when she dived under 4 rows of mines   & sank that Turkish battleship. And  not least of all we have shanken  hands with her V.C. Commander &  had afternoon tea with her crew  every one awarded the D.S.M. Let  me tell you how it came about  At 2 o'clock the crew had to take the   Brigadier & staff ashore to the 9th  Camp. He said he would be ashore   an hour or so & had no objection  to our pulling out to the 'Eliza' Off   we went with Sgt Heritage on whom  we picked up as we were moving off.    We had a good 3 miles to row & saw  the Agamemnon Inflexible & Lord Nelson  
steam off. The booms were up  on the 'Eliza' & we were frightened  we wouldn't be in time. However we  got there in time to rowe right round  her and gaze aghast at the great  floating mass of armoured steel &  guns. What a personification of power  she looked. Think of it 8 immense long  15 inch dealers of death capable of throwing  a shells weighing a ton, 15 miles.  On each side forward were  6 - 6 inchers  & aft 2 each side, 16 in all. Amidships  what looked like 4 - 12 inchers. The  immense steel barbettes for the 15s  were awe inspiring  You couldn't imagine  any force piercing them And yet to  think that floating fort costing 2 million  & its thousand souls could be blotted out by one little mine. War is cruel think of that gigantic engine of destruction throwing its ton shells whe  25000 yds over hills  & reducing forts to rubbish and men  to bloody atoms, while 4 miles out of  range; neither the weilders  not seeing the   effect of their fire nor the defenders where  they it came from.  There were a lot of men on deck  among them about 20 civies (men in civilian clothes) whom we found  to be articifers from the workshops.  On the quarter deck the commander  paced his constitutional accompanied  by an officer while the orderley messenger  waited in attendance. The range  finding crows nest was an immense  affair, roofed, capable of holding 20  men. In an engagement seat the   only faces  life visible would be the faces  of the range finders.  We slowly drifted past changing remarks  with the crew & then made a supply  ship with two submarines alongside.  We had no thought of being able to   board the submarines as even in   peace times it needs an admirals  order to board one. We were invited   aboard the supply ship in search of  a drink of water & meeting some of  the submarine's crew were told the   Commander might let us aboard if  we asked. Up went Sgt Tomlinson  & with Australian cheek got what we  wanted. We couldn't scramble down  the connecting plank quickly enough.  The crew of 13 sort of opened their  bosoms to us. The conning tower was 
an elliptical shaped affair only   coming to a very narrow point each  end From bow to stern stretched a wire   rope supported in the centre by a standard  that kept it above all gear so  that a wire rope would offer no  obstruction when the submarine was  submerged. The periscope was capable  of being lowered below this wire for  of course the periscope is the only visible  object when she is submerged.  A ladder led down the conning tower  & into the hull as also did one on   the deck. Down below was the most   interesting little cubby hole. The little   room was only about 5 feet in height  & about 60 feet in length. The switches   wheels & machinery bewilded one.  Right forward were the two torpedo   tubes surrounded by all the gear  that works them. Two long cigars took  up a lot of space on the floor. On them  were placed bags which overcame the  necessity of seating accommodation.  The floor forward was the roof   of the petrol tank. A neat little  electric cooking arrangement took our  fancy. In no time they boiled some 
water & made us tea. I had a   regulation navy basin of it It was   easily the most delicious tea I have  had since you made that cup with  the boiling milk. They cut us sandwiched  & it seemed as if the couldn't do   enough for us. What a fine body   of a man they looked clear cut thin faced looking  all with intellectual faces & nothing to   say for about themselves.  Heroes every   one. We couldn't stand it any longer  so off we fired questions after question  This is the disjointed story we were   able to drag out of one. 'We were told   off to reconnoitre in the Dardanelles  & got up as far as Chanak without  mishap when the skipper spotted the   Turkish battleship. We dived to get a bit  closer, guessed the range at 1000yds &   fired. Then they spotted us & we had  just time to see her disappear ten minutes   after firing & get away as quickly as   we could. We were 9 hours under   that trip. It made is feel a bit  dizzy when we got to the fresh air again  but you don't notice it until then."  They seemed quite unconcerned about  the exploit ' Why' said one' The last trip 
up the Straights was the toughest.  We were told off to draw the fire  of the forts & we did it only too well  A shell lobbed within 20 yds of us   with our conning tower above water.  Another followed closer before we  had time to dive, but we were well  under when we heard the third. It  was touch & go that time." Another of  our crew was able to drag out the   following." The skipper told use we were   to get up as far as we could & there  were 4 rows of mines to dodge & said  'what about it ' 'Where you are game  to go we are" we answered, & off we went.'  Of course we had a peep at the   periscope. It gave quite a clear deflection  of boats lying ahead. On it are marked  line which enable the commander to   tell where the torpedoes are sighting.  When submerged the only target offered  is this tiny tube two inches in diameter  Think of the accuracy of that gunner on the 'Birmingham'  who picked of the German periscope at  half a mile, first shot too.  The crew loaded us with magazines  a cigarette each to smoke above  & several tins of oxtail soup which were pressed on us in spite of our  protests that it was robbing them.  What was more important still was  an invitation to visit them again.  This morning we took the ships  doctor ashore at the little jetty & having  an hour to wait took a stroll into  the village again.  We penetrated a   bit further & found it much more  populous.  The little narrow lanes  wound about in a most perplexing  way  We came across the village  pump with several clear typed women  filling their stone jars.  Very picturesque  it looked.  Soldiers from the 8 French transports  now in port have  started a little camp  quite near the town.  About half a  mile round the other way the advance  company of the Naval Brigade ASC  have also started a camp.  French  soldiers of  in every conceivable type  of uniform were about.  On At the shore nearest ninth camp  a little jetty has been started by the  engineers.  Whatever will it be like  when the full force of 100000 Australian  English & French arrive? We did our trip round the brigade  boat in 28 minutes early this evening  &  o it is time I turned in probably to  dream about submarines & Super Dreadnoughts   & you. Goodnight little girl.  Monday Nothing startling to-day. This  morning we took the Brigadier ashore.  There was a brigade route march on.  After coming back we rowed over to a  small gunboat who the 'Hussan' which  is acting flagship for the war news.  From there we went to the 9th landing  passing a merchantman which that struck  a mine in the Bay of Smyrna. Her cargo  of wheat was being unloaded into a boat  alongside. After landing our passengers  we had a swim. The water was too cold  to stay in long. The last couple of days  have been wonderfully fine the bay as  smooth as glass & the sun quite warm  in the day time. It has rained twice  since we have been here, just short  thunderstorms. I would like to know  what is going on in the Dardanelles to-day  The harbour is clear of men of war with  the exception of the 'Swiftsure' (the cruiser  with the big cranes for hoisting torpedo boats  that picked us up at Aden 3 months ago) 
the two submarines & the flagship.  Even the hospital ship 'Soudan' cleared  out yesterday She is attached to the navy.     A Russian 5 funnelled Cruiser the identical  one that we saw at Colombo went out  this afternoon. I don't think I mentioned  the Blenheim as being in the other day.  She is a pre Dreadnought fitted up as a  veritable machine shop. She is capable  of acting as supply ship to 32 Destroyers.  Taking out damaged plates & putting  in new ones is right in her line  I forgot to tell you yesterday that Submarine  crews are all voluntary They get 3/6 a day  extra, not much of an insurance  annuity  premium is it? The Australian submarine  AE2 was in the other day She ran aground  near the entrance & has had to go to  Malta to be overhauled.  Some of the transports are using great  Turkish barges for taking horses ashore  I in I wonder if they are captures?  The French Foreign Legion is here. No  doubt you have heard of them. Once  joined you are there for life. A ha'penny  a day is the pay & no questions asked when  you join I wonder if it is as romantic  as novelists paint it. I know there are several Englishman in it.  There is some talk of us swimming  back to Alexandria for water & stores.  I hope so. The water they put on yesterday  was brackish. You were thirstier after  than before drinking. Harry Nott in  his condemnation wrote that it was  a disgrace to H.M Transports.  Major Oldham was expressing his opinion  rather freely yesterday about the Scotch  owners, Scotch ship & Scotch food. The  captain overheard & took up the defence  immediately. The discussion came on  to the butter. 'Wh That butter was the  finest procurable when it was but aboard,'  said the captain. 'But how old is that ship'  said Mjr Oldham.  That little village I have tried to describe  is Murkos Mudros. The largest on the island  is "Castro" exactly where it lies I can't  say.  Tuesday The programme this morning was  practicing landing under cover of a warships  guns. B Coy was the lander covering Coy &  had to be landed first to hold the position  while the others landed. They started at  3:30 a m We left with the Brigadier & Staff  after they were afloat & were the first to land. It was very dark, the shore  not visible until within 100 yds making  it very difficult to pick up any direction  There are no prominent landmarks round  the bay & the boats being anchored forward  only, swing round to each change of wind  It is most perplexing at night time. I  think it was more luck than anything  that we struck the right spot. After  landing out passengers we came back &  met several boatloads wandering about  Just after we got aboard the rain started  Only half could have got ashore when  it was cancelled. They came back like  drowned rats. Naturally the whole thing  was a failure which the ships officers  expected. To-day has been quite an off day.  The crew went over to the flagship for  war news. All we got yesterday & to-day  concerned the French frontier only. It looks  as if things were beginning to move there.  The night before last the 'Ameythist' a  small cruiser was doing reconnortering  work in the Dardanelles when she was  surprised by a battery of howitzers.  Twenty three were killed & 14 wounded.  'One' of the 'mouth' class of cruisers is  lying in harbour. Of of her boilers burst while operating up there and killed  11 men. The battleship we thought was  the 'Inflexible' was the 'Agamemnon'  In her first engagement some of the ships  crew were over on the disengaged side  painting blotches. This has a peculiar  optical effect making a difficult target.  The shells were falling all around & two  men were killed before being all ordered  'under armour'. The tale goes that the skipper  got hauled over the coals about it. One  of the men killed had a point brush still  in his hand when picked up.  We got all this news on our trip the morning  I dont know why I am writing it all down  It will all be stale by the time it reaches   you. However I am to post it I cant imagine  I seem to derive a lot of pleasure from just  writing to you though I know it will be months  before you can get it.  For the last 4 nights I have been living or at  least sleeping in luxury. The 9th Orderley  Room was is one of the smoking rooms. As  they are ashore it is not being used.  Roy White first told me about it & Rhodes  Jones & I bunk on the saddleback cushioned  lounges. There is plenty of room & we are  not disturbed. I have been doing all the writing one one of the marble card tables. We are envied by all who are in the know. A collier came alongside this morning & delivered water & some preserved vegetables.  The tucker has been much better the last couple of days. Wednesday 17th A funny incident happened this morning About 20 sick (all those in the hospital on board) were being towed ashore by a pinnace.   A Greek bum boat was alongside one of the jigs selling fruit The pace increased & the owner let go to pick up the next boat.  Somehow or other the Dago got jambed & his boat fully stocked turned turtle.  The fellows could hardly pull him out for laughing At He gave one agonised look at the keel of his boat with matches nuts oranges Turkish Delight etc floating round and burst into tears.  All the way ashore he tore his hair in real Greek Dago fashion The climax came when one of the purchasers asked for his tuppence change.  He had a hired man aboard but he jumped onto the jig when the boat was filling.  He was most unconcerned, smoking his cigarette & gazing round as if it was quite a pleasure trip There were half a dozen cases of measles among those taken ashore.  Four are from A company two of which are in our platoon Archie Smith & Swann.  It is only German measles.  Fisher has tonsolitis but expect to be back again in a couple of days. The news this morning only concerned France nothing about the Dardanelles or Russia.  I believe they have made good progress in the former place if they have not actually got right through More boats in to-day but no word of the rest of our division.  It is rumoured Sir Ian Hamilton is to command this expedition & is to arrive to-day Nothing official about our moving or the arrival of the rest of the division Most of the French force must be here by now. Thursday    Had a day with the heads.  We must have seen 1/2 a doz Generals at the same time this morning.  The new scout Phaeton arrived yesterday with Sir Ian Hamilton & staff aboard.  They ran from Marseilles in two days, quite easy for a 36 knot boat. She is a new class built for scouting & destroying destroyers.   Not heavily armed, nearly everything being sacrificed for speed.  We took the brigadier off to her on his own. At the same time a couple of British Generals & their staffs & 2 French Generals with their staffs arrived on their official visits to Sir Ian. The saluting that went on among them was never ending. We were not kept waiting for long as the 'Phaeton' moved off after the visitors had hurriedly got aboard their small craft. The sailors said she was going up the Dardanelles sightseeing Coming back the Brigadier told us that we would be here for some time as the French & Naval Brigade  The [[?]] would probably move first. He also told us that the Queen Elizabeth was heavily engaged yesterday A large number of shells struck her but only bounced back into the water. This new elastic armoured steel must be wonderful stuff. One shell only did any damage, entering the a wardroom possibly through a porthole. No casualties were mentioned. Today has been a bit rough making rowing difficult. They took all the morning to take the battalion off, as each boat has to make 3 trips, some 4. We had quite a rough time rowing the brigadier round to several of the Castle boats this afternoon. 
This evening four of the Castle boats and the Royal George went out. Nobody seems to know where they are bound for. I think there is  R.M.L. I on all. The officers were all supposed to wear web equipment & rifles for the first time. They didn't play the game though as they only had overcoats in their packs B4 got a cheer mixed with jeers when he appeared with his. Unfortunately he had noticed a great 12 lb tin of bully somebody had slipped in when his batman wasn't looking. There were some nurses aboard the ah Narvanha. A hospital has been establis... ashore so perhaps Gay Burns is there I haven't seen any of them but next time we go to Mudros I will have a look out. Still no mail. Have found out there is a weekly mail with Egypt & Castro which hes somewhere on the other side of the island It comes overland from Castro to Mudros but there has been no military letters yet. Perhaps they don't haven't let the [[headqua...?]] P.O. know where to send ours. Friday Last night I had just finished this I had time to undress & settle down comfort ably when in came Sgt Tomlinson The crew was wanted to take the Adj & the two interpreters we have with us ashore Some Greek had run amok & been laid out by one of our chaps before doing any damage. The local police were kicking up a shindy. The wind had increased so those heavy gigs needed some pulling against the head wind. it took us nearly 2 hours solid pulling to get to the newly constructed 9th jetty We got back to the ship at 2.30 am. We have been off all duty to-day as a reward. There was to have been another attempt at night landing in the morning but I expect it will be cancelled as the wind is still strong. At no time have the waves been large enough  to cause the slightest movement of the Ionian but the jigs being so high out of the water, catch it all & make it only possible to move very slowly against it. The Castle liners all came back to-day having only cruised outside the harbour To day comes the official news that the Invincible Ocean Irresistible have met with misfortune with no loss of life but a French cruiser sank with all hands in 3 minutes
The trouble seems to be floating mines 
The Turks or rather the Germans float these mines down the Straights with the tide, causing the men of war to move 
out each night. The library was opened to-day. The 9th Orderly room were we sleep is being used. However we have still got our tables & lounges & as it is only to be open for an hour each day it will cause us inconvenience. I got hold of a book by McCutcheon 'Nedra' this morning & have finished it. It is a most perplexing book, but I expect you have read it. It has struck me that the reason of the others getting the chance of removal before us is the want of transports to bring up the rest of the Division. I surmise that the opportunity of 4 transports near Egypt was the cause of the 3rd Brigade moving when they did it did and were was intended as a reserve for the marines that landed. Finding that it was premature to attempt it at present & the other forces arriving complete, they naturally would get pride of position. I believe there are over 2000 transports engaged & just at this time they would have none to spare from the Channel.  Saturday The Dardanelles rumours [[yester]]  
we're not quite right as we found out this morning when the official news from the 'Hussar' was posted. The Irresistible & Ocean & 2 French boats were sunk and the Invincible was damaged by a howitzer battery but successfully beach at [[?]]. This happened Thursday. We had a lecture this afternoon about the war. It is estimated there are 18000 German Officers & non coms among the Turks. You see Germany has been frighten ed all along Turkey would say 'Kismet' when the bombardment started & make it an excuse to declare peace early to save Constantinople, which is quite on the boards I think.  There is a rumour among the officers that Sir Ian Hamilton has declared he won't table the proposition without half a million men. It has been blowing a gale today. There has been no chance of any crews going out. Each company in turn had a sort of route march round the ship. Being off all other duties except the crew I have been reading all day. I struck an old bound volume of the Corkhill. A mail closed today. Through Keith Green I was able to write you more than the regulation page chiefly extracts from this diary letter.  How I hate writing letters that I know are to be censored.  I quake when I think this one might be. All the boats have two anchors out but the waves are not strong enough to case any motion.  The wind is howling through the rigging a most [[mournfill?]] way.  This storm will stop all operations in the Dardanelles. until It is wonderful what can be done with bully beef.  The past 3 days since our cooks have taken over the galley they have made different kinds of stews with it, quite palatable they have been. The lights have gone out so it is Goodnight again My Darling. Monday night I didnt write yesterday.  There didnt seem anything of interest to write about & then paper is getting short. A couple of the Octans crew have been attached to us for signalling purposes until they get another ship.  It appears they had plenty of time to get off the Ocean taking 3 hours to sink.  Some of the crew, excited, jumped on to the decks of the rescuing boats & broke their legs. The two sister ships easily distinguished Agamemnon & Lord Nelson with the [[Queen]]. 
Elizabeth came in last night. A shell pierced one of the funnels of the Liza. We haven't heard much of the last engagement. The storm blew out yesterday. The crew had a trip to the Hussar after war news & to the 3rd Brigade boat. In the afternoon the wind was blowing nearly  as strong,  ofrom the immediate reverse quarter & has kept up to-day. The jigs have been so badly knocked about that I believe they are not to be used for taking troops ashore anymore  The companies have been taking it in turn to exercise by running round the ship. This afternoon  General Birdwood who arrived to-day in the 'Doris' came aboard. The Doris has been engaged bombarding Smyrna, Whether she brought mails from with the General remains to be seen Four weeks to-day without a line. That's the hardest part of all. One of the chaps who was recommended for one of those commissions in the English army got hold of the what he says is reliable information that nearly all those recommended had been granted I hope my luck changes if we get into any action. 
I am a getting a veratable book worm. Yesterday I finished that volume of ‘Cornhill’  & to-day Jess by Rider Haggard. This is not bad reading though the ending
seems too sad. I think I would have finished it a another way. When at the flagship yesterday they gave us some London Times & copies of the  Malta Daily Chronicle as late as March 10th. Here I am at the last page. I will have to fall back over the sheet of paper. I will have
to fall back on sheets of paper. When I get the chance I will post you the two books of carbon copies in case any of the letters has gone astray. This ought to be a worlds record letter 44 pages  if so far  & not chance of posting for some time. I forgot to number Saturdays censored letter C4. These censored mails will be weekly going ashore on Monday to the local post office where they are sent to Castro & thence per steamer to Alexandria via Athens. They should arrive in time to catch the following weeks Australian mail which leaves on Tuesdays generally. I will end up this page as a letter & the go on with No. 19 on whatever I can get hold of.  Good night my Darling Angel from your ever loving boy Tom. 