 Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte
Rank: Private
Date: 18 November 1914
Location: England Indian Ocean
Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade
Nationality: Australian

Text:
 England.
Indian Ocean 
Wednesday November 18, 1914.

My Dear Darling Wife,
 We left Colombo yesterday about midday. I have been worried ever since. I gave a long letter I had written to a man who was just about sure to be discharged & sent back to Adelaide. He was sent to the ‘Orvieto’ to be examined, he had some growth in his throat. I believe they kept him there much to Dr Nott's surprise. Unless he had a chance of getting the letter ashore I am afraid you wont get it until you receive this. I am worried because you will be disappointed at the short bare note I wrote that had to be censored & there will be quite 3 weeks to wait. It has been gloriously smooth. The boat has not rocked a bit. The weather is still hot. We get about in dungarees only. I still have one of the best sleeping out places on the ship so I am better off than most of the privates. My leg is nearly better I am sorry to say. 
There [[?]] only about 28 boats in this division. We are hurrying on to coal at Aden while the rest will be there when we are finished. They are mostly the ones that coaled at Colombo. I would like to have landed there. It looked very pretty with so much green about. Nobody from the Ascanius was ashore at all. I can  remember remember Colombo best of all on the trip out. That was about the time you spent most of your time sleeping & drinking. It was a very hot day & we went for a walk along a Cinnamon Grove, saw several elephants & naked children and were intensely interested in the natives chewing betel nut. Some of the New Zealanders were allowed ashore we heard, but started upsetting rickshaws & generally painting the town red. A picquette was sent for & then every available man to arrest the picquette. The poor beggars hadn't been on land for 8 weeks.  We have been very disappointed through not getting papers. All I have seen since leaving Fremantle is a single sheet published Monday night. A paragraph saying that some trophies from the Emden were to be sent to the Federal capital showed that you have evidently heard full particulars of that famous duel. The prisoners came into Colombo while we were there. There were about 400 of them on the Empress of Russia or some Empress liner accompanied by a cruiser. We could not see them. Only 4 weeks gone since I last saw you. However I will last out till May I don't know. Oh how I long for a sight of you & how heavenly just one kiss would be. Well it's got to be faced so there's no good longing. I have to go & do the most distasteful job of the lot now. The only thing I detest & dread-washing clothes. I would sooner be a burglar than a washer woman. [*Friday Evening*] nothing much happened since I last wrote. I am still grieving about that unposted letter. There are 10 N.Z. boats after all. They are all painted that leaden coloured grey & being right back in the line, nearly over the horizon, difficult to count. It was the first line of boats that stayed at Colombo the 10 headed by the Euripides They came in sight to-day. First of all a wee thin line of smoke away back on the horizon just like you could imagine the smoke rising from a cigarette half a mile away. Then a few knife edges until they gradually took shape. They are accompanied by a warship. Before they had got up with us the Ascanius forged full speed ahead with 4 of the N.Z. boats & with the 'Hampshire' (the cruiser that has been with us from Colombo) We are gradually leaving them all & I suppose hurrying on to Aden. W It is wonderful that a little thing like speeding on should make everybody pleased. There was quite a stire of excitement. It may mean an extra day in one of the most disagreeable ports on earth, but nobody looks at it that way. 
I have been doing quite a lot of reading lately. We have a library on board with about a couple of hundred novels. I have read one each day since Wednesday. The first was 'Pole Baker' by Will. N. Harben It is rather nice & a book you would like if you haven't read it. The second was Lewis Rand by Mary Johnson. Like most of hers, it has a sad ending. At one time I used to like books with sad endings but I don't now. There is too much tragic finishes in life without looking for them in novels. The one finished just now was The Dream Ship by Cynthia Stockley. I like it less than the others. What a goose Val is. A little explanation now & then would have saved her them both a lot of worry. If there is not too much delay this letter should reach you just before Christmas. Oh how I want to be with you. I want you to write & tell me that on Christmas Day you laughed more than any of them, talked more & [[?]] jollier than the lot. 
If you only can, it would be heavenly for me. If I could only think that you were showing everybody how gay you can be, & not letting thoughts of my abscence trouble you, it would be so much easier to bear. Will you? I have never thought of you so constantly & so often than since we left Fremantle, Even reading makes no difference. Every few minutes I have to put the book down & gaze at the sea & just think of you. Think how perfect you are, how womanly, how entrancing, how beautiful, loveable & how wifely. Even reading & I am constantly weaving & comparing characteristics of yours, trying to think what you y would do under the circumstances. Oh how I long to have you in my arms & hold you tight. I would never let you go again. I know you are loving me darling & I am loving you, loving you more than I ever did before. What a time we will have when I come back. I won't let you out of my sight for a fortnight. I will follow you to the [[?]] even. 
[*Saturday.*] I am quite anxious to tell you about a most exciting half hour this morning.  at 10 to 5 we were awakened by a crunch & the shock of a slight double collision. The siren sounded a couple of long blasts & the fire bell rang. When the fire bell rings orders are to go below to the troop decks fasten on life belts & await orders. As we have practised it a couple of times, so there was no confusion. I was asleep on the promenade deck as usual, & the shock awoke me. I thought at first that we had struck a mine, but quickly reasoned that there was no explosion & b searched for my tobacco & pipe under my coat, which I was using for a pillow. Getting below without any undue haste, I got a lifebelt & your photo, & sat down with the rest. I must confess I felt a bit queer but don't think I showed it. Until we knew there was nothing very serious the waiting was somewhat tedious and anxious. I suggested a game of bridge Three were agreeable but we couldn't get a fourth By that time we knew there was not much danger. We all filed on deck & took our position in close formation of fours After a wait of half an hour the bugle sounded 'No Parade' & we were dismissed It appears that the boat ahead of us, the Shropshire stopped & either didn't give the signal, or our fourth officer, who had charge, didn't hear it in time. We grazed her stern with our bow, knocked one of her boats to bits & passed right on As we swung one of our boats on the poop deck (stern) was smashed & cast a drift. A hole about 20 feet long & 18 inches 2 feet wide was knocked in our bow about 6 feet above the water line. I believe two men on the Shropshire were either knocked or jumped overboard. There are conflicting accounts as to their rescue. Nobody on the Ascanius was scratched though men had their hammocks tied to the davits & rails that were twisted & crumpled. The utmost order was kept throughout, it was more like a false alarm than a real one. The Hampshire was soon alongside. They steamed quite close just as the sun was rising about 5.45 & the captain was very sarcastic "My congratulations to the officer of the watch. In my 30 years experience at sea I have never known a ship to ram her leading guide." The poor officers. It will probably mean a court martial by the Admiralty when we reach home & either he or the Shropshires officer will suffer I expect repairs will be effected at Aden. Bugler Whitcombe showed a very fine example of presence of mind. He was sleeping below on the troop deck when the first shock half woke him He reached over to his locker & getting out his bugle played the 'Stand Fast' which is always supposed to be played h under those circumstances. It was heard nearly all over the ship. After playing it he asked what he had played, he wasn't quite sure. [*Sunday*] Rather relieved when Battalion Orders came out this evening. They are not going to Censor letters at Aden. We should reach there Wednesday morning. No communication is to be allowed with the shore. I don't think there will be a mail boat leaving there for Australia until early next week As the mail closes at 8 p.m. on Tuesday I may will write again before leaving if opportunity offers. I am still troubled. If the mail does leave soon after we get there & before the Orvieto arrives you may not get my last letter until a week after this. I think I had better number the letters to avoid confusion I will call this one No 2. The one that should have been posted at Columbo No 1.  The short censored note from Colombo is not worth numbering. No 3 I will either be posted from Aden or Port Said. We should sight Socotra Island tomorrow morning. I can't find out anything about it nobody seems to know much & I dont remember hearing more than the name before. The 12 troopships & cruiser with us have been pushing on at about 2 knots faster than the remainder. We covered exactly 300 miles during the 24 hours ending at noon today. It still keeps calm although there is a little breeze. Flying fish have been plentiful the past couple of days. They are out of the sea quite a dozen yards sometimes.  I have seen a couple of big fellows (about the size of a tommy rough) fly quite 30 yards. It appears that nobody fell off the Shropshire, they only thought they had for about half an hour. In thinking things over I have come to the conclusion that there was not very much danger. If we had hit her full on & our bows had crumpled up, only the forward bulkhead forecastle would have filled Even if she had sunk just about all of us would have been picked up in the calm sea very quickly by the scores of gigs that would have been on the spot before the ship would have had time to go under. Of course the 2000 aboard could not possibly, get aboard our boats which only provide for about 400. There is a rumour that we may get some letters at Aden. It will be  quite exciting. How I long for a letter.
I have read the ones I received at  Fremantle quite half a dozen times.
[*Monday.*] Socotra was on our left at daylight this  morning. It must be a good way distance away  & have some high mountains, we can just  see them in the light blue distance. I have  managed to find out something about it.  In 1834 the East India Company occupied it  then a formal British Protectorate was established  in 1886. In return for a small subsidy the  Sheikh pledges not to cede the island to any  foreign power. The area is 1400 Sq miles &  inhabited by about 12000 Arabs. It is 150 miles  from Cape Gar Guardafui & about 500 from  Aden The industries are mainly pastoral  but I think lot of indigo comes from  there. We were in had the second typoid inoculation  the other day. There was no after effect  this time. I suppose we will be vaccinated  in the Red Sea. I suppose you wonder  what part of the anatomy that is.
 I am enclosing  a post card of the  Ascanius. I had a dozen  printed very cheaply on board  so that accounts for the shoddiness  I sent the others to acquaintances all  over the place.

It is hard for me know what will be of  interest to you. I don't want to bore you  with a lot of uninteresting details, so tell  me exactly what you want to hear.
[*?day*] I am on guard to-day. It is the first time  [[?for around 3]] weeks. My sixpenny sore had  its advantages. I am sorry to say it has  healed. This morning I saw a most perfect  sunrise. There was every shade & colour  The deepest vermillion it is possible to imagine  to the lightest pink and all shades of blue.
And all caused by our Mophetville Staple  diet. What a moral.
I am quite excited I haven't blown my nose  for about a month. Just think of it. I have  never experienced anything like that before.  No cold & no dust is the reason I suppose.  There is nothing more I can think of to  tell you except to wish to merriest  of Christmases and the happiest of New Years. I will be kissing you for all I am worth  on Christmas morning, your time, from 7 till  8 o'clock  Good night Darling
Your every loving boy
Tom.
Give them all  my love & best wishes etc.