
Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte
Rank: Private
Date: 9 November 1914
Location: Mena Cairo Egypt
Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade
Nationality: Australian

Text: 

Wednesday November 9, 1914.
 
My Darling Little Girl,  If I remember rightly my last letter  finished with news that I was going to  Mena with the advance party. We left the  Ascanius about 7 p.m. & after waiting on  the wharf got aboard the train with 3 companies  of the 11th (W.A.) There were 24 of us, 6 from A company  including Micky Smith & Stokes of our old  tent, all in charge of Captain Hall of the   Signallers. There was plenty of room in  the train & though the carriages were for only  3rd class, the travelling was fairly comfortable.  The Egyptian State railways run 3 classes  the lines are well laid & the guage is the   European standard of 4 ft 7½ ins. We started   from the wharf at 9.10 8.10 & arrived at Cairo at  1.30 am. It was a moonlight misty night;  which gave the scenery we passed through a  weird affect. We stopped for a few minutes  at 3 stations. It was a pity it was night,  but it did not prevent us guessing if not  seeing what the country was like. Being the valley of the Nile it was nearly  all irrigated fields of rice, maize, sugar & [[beersem?]] The towns were weird, pure Eastern,  with streets 3 yards wide & thickly inhabited. We were near enough to catch the smell, that  necessary adjunct to all, Eastern inhabited places.  We managed to get some sleep when we were tired of looking out. I must tell you one funny experience. Drawing out of the main station at Alexandria Micky Smith bought a packet of cigarettes from an arab who haunt every station in droves. Sixpence was the smallest coin he hadd so the exchange was made not without the arab trying to pull a knife out of Smith's hand. Micky was rejoicing over his victory, but the joke was against him when he opened the packet, it was empty. We are stillm enjoying a laugh over it, as Micky had been poking fun at all of us for being taken down at on various occasions We could not see much of Cairo except a beautiful view crossing the nile just before we got in. We were kept at the station for an hour or two & had a delicious cup of chocolate (beat arcadia easily) a Vienna roll and a piece of Dutch Cheshire cheese [served to us. The station yard was alive with troops & arab trollies loading luggage. The trollies are extraordinary affairs about the same length as our small ones, & only half the width & height. a bag of bones the size of a large dog represents the horse,  or a sleeping dirty donkey. The drivers are clothed in nightgowns reaching to the ground, generally in rags. They took all the luggage & to the trains about 400 yards away. We boarded these & after a short wait were whizzed out here. The trains also have 3 classes, three a first, second & third class train being coupled & run to-gether. The guage is much narrower than the Adelaide trains but the pace  is quite as fast & the line as well laid  except the curves which seem to be sharper & cause the trams to round slower. The drivers & conductors are Egyptian & look very smart in their red fezs & khaki uniforms The system is practically the same as the M.T.T. They are run by a French company 
The conductor uses a little motor horn which he blows to start the train when it is too crowded to reach the bell. We The road out must be one of the most beautiful in the world. It is lined with trees that look like (tamarisk Sycamore,                           all the way, the train one side under the trees & a beautiful road in the centre. a splendid bridge crosses Old Father nile before getting out of the city. Tributaries & irrigated flats with occasional native villages lineing the road, which is raised, as the surrounding country is nearly allua under water, when the nile is in flood. Mena posseses a fine tourists hotel called the Mena House  Hotel which is now Divisional Headquarters Staff, an English chemists, a French cafe, Post Office, 3 or 4 residences and a couple of arab mud villages in the vicinity. The camp is  starts almost from the tram terminus The 1st (n.S.W.) & 2nd (Vic.) battalions brigades were in camp when we arrived & part of our brigade, the 9th battalion (queensland). Everything was in the nucleus state, but the authorities were getting to work making roads in the sand & laying light train rails. 
The site is in a declivity with the plateau of the pyramids forming one side. The great pyramid of Cheops is 1600 yds distant from our lines, the second largest "Khephrew" is quite close too, but we can't see the third large one 'Mykerinos' nor the Sphinx & 6 smaller pyramids from here as they are more on the other side. You will find a lot more than I can tell you about them in the Public Library. Friday There is no mail until Monday so I will take my time over this letter. Well to tell you something about the camp. We arrived on Monday morning about 5. After a couple of hours sleep we set to work to erect a few tents etc & knocked off about 4. Micky & I cleared off for a look at Cairo. I will tell you about that later. The place was alive with nigger camels & donkeys carting baggage from the train, making roads & selling everything Everybody in Egypt wants to sell something The fellaheen, the lowest class of Arabs, Egyptians & the mixture, are all pedlars, at least the men, you seldom see the women Oranges, figs, dates, chocolate, cigarettes, postcards, every imaginable commodity & lots you can't imagine. They pester the life out of you. The camels. 'Old the 'Unt'; with their outstretched necks, sour faces, ugly legs, soft springy pads and sedate walk close behind one another, loaded with mats of stone often driven by a sore eyed child of 6. and the donkeys with their 'boys' trotting alongside whacking them with a stick while the purch hirer perches himself as far back as he can without slipping over the tail. a steam roller very much out of place snorted along the loosely thrown stones several times, sand & water thrown on, & there was the road & a very good road too. The lightest of train lines thrown down on the sand run the full length of the camp in 3 vertical parallel lines & with hopper like trucks that 3 men can push with a full load helps a lot to take the tremendous traffice necessary for the building of a camp of 15000 in a week We are placed something like this 
The Light Horse are not in camp with us, nor the New Zealanders. They are in other camps near Cairo about 400 Ceylon Planters Rifle club volunteers are also here. At present we have 7 tents per companys but will get 12 the same, as at Morphettville.  We dont need them as all sleep out. The dew is [[?it]] heavy & it rained the second night, but as we have 4 blankets & an oiled sheet each we dont mind what happens. The food has been a bit scarce as yet owing to the rush, We are allowed 6 a day ration extra in lieu of jam & butter which makes things all right as it is all spent at the canteen in these things by the O.C. The canteen supplies everything including good English beer at a piastre a pint but as the it is always crowded when opened I don't see much. Water is laid on from wells in the sandhills native barbers are also near the canteens. A tent post office is attached to each bridgade, but no stamps will be available for this mail. It has mostly been fatigue work we have been doing, forming long lines on to the plateau & passing stones down to mark battalion lines The routine will be much the same as at Morphettville.
Sunday 13th. We had a half holiday yesterday. In the morning we had a bathing parade at the Mena House baths. They are open air marble lined & quite large enough for 2 companies. We will get this once a week. Well to get on to Cairo. It was wonderful, Egypt of the Egyptians, the most cosmopolitan city in the world. Fellaheen, (arab & Egyptian) brushing shoulders with millionaire pashas, French, Greeks, Italians, Maltese, Syrians, Abyssinians Soudanese negroes Russians, Turks, Sicilians, Spaniards, Portugese, Belgians  Indians, Armenians, natives of all the Balkan states and every other nation you can think of. Dapper Frenchmen with the very latest cut, Egyptian gentlemen  in their frock coats & fezs, English officials in fezs,  Mohammedan priests with their shaven heads & [[?baq]] frocks, arabs of the better class in the red pointed shoes & flowing robes of every hue. Veiled women with brass anklets & black robes, arab fellaheen  women of all shapes & colours, negresses with thick lips & red tongues. Six thousand pound limousines dodging arab sweetmeat carts, an Egyptian Boy dashing past with driving a pair of superb arabs dashing past the slowly moving donkeys. Magnificent French drapery shops lofty & wide streets, just around
The corner, up a 3 yard lane & the most squalid of native quarters, dirty, smelly, with their shops  the size of a bathroom & selling queer food, drinks, confectionery and sweets dear to hearts of arab & Egyptian Oh it is wonderful How I wish you were here with me to see it all. and the cafes with chairs & tables half way across the footpath & the fez capped customers sipping their absinthe & coffee, here & there smoking hookahs & the eternal cigarette. We wandered around for hours soaking it all in; now admiring the wonderful confectionery shops with the most tempting looking pastry possible (it tastes as good as it looks) next minute in the bazaars watching arabs of the lowest type sipping sipping their coffee served from big brass kettles & eating fearful looking sweatmeats. and the variety of the bazaar shops, how they specialise.  I saw one selling nothing but flour. The bootblacks chasing you always the life pestered out of you if you happen to look at any of the vendors of postcards, fruit, ancient coins (manufactured in Birmingham to order) hierioglyphical mats, hand kerchiefs, silks, walking slicks & canes, prawns, watches
dusters, Chocolate, roasted maize, Vienna loaves, stamps, fried fish, hoop het shaped arab sugar bread, Turkish delight, and cigarettes Everything you can think of is hawked. The variety of cigarettes I have counted as many as 38 different brands in one vendors tray. The cabs look funny.  They are open Victorias with a large moveable hoods. The policemen in their blue red & khaki uniform look smart, then there are differently uniformed lamplighters, street cleaners, and gaffers a sort of night watchman & under policemen. Papers in English, French, arabic & Greek are for sale everywhere, and just to make the mixture more perplexing soldiers swarm everywhere Territorials, Indians, New Zealanders, Ceylon volunteers Army of occupation, Egyptians + Australians I could fill pages & pages telling you of the wonderful sights but I won't weary you. How I want you to see it all. We had leave from 3 till 10 on Thursday and went over it all again seeing lots of fresh new interest. I couldn't help thinking all the time what a lovely place it would make for a honeymoon. I want to be with you so much darling. It is getting harder than ever. We have not received any letters yet. They sent a cable of inquiry to australia the other day. It is 43 days since I have heard anything from home. We are well off now for news of the war. The Egyptian mail publishes some very good articles by their military correspondent. There have been several visitors to the camp this p.m. We will be well off for leave. Every 8 days the whole company gets from 2 till 10pm. Sunday afternoons can be spent visiting the pyramids & country in vicinity of camp. Saturday afternoons will probably be holidays too. There is talk of all the early annexation of Egypt and all the troops being in Cairo at the Proclamation. There wont be any trouble I think. The Egyptian likes the Englishman much better than the Turk. They have deported several agitators of the young Egyptian party, I believe. They have not much following. I did not post the cards mentioned in the last letter, I am adding some more & posting them to night with a few stamps for Jack. Love to all your own boy, Tom.


Reply to Adelaide Y.M.C.A. Army Department  Pvte T A Whyte  No. 47 A Coy.  10th Infantry Battalion  3rd Brigade  1st Australian Division    Cairo  Egypt                                        Mena  Egypt 