Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte
Rank: Private
Date: 19 February 1915
Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt
Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade
Nationality: Australian

Text:


Mena Camp, Cairo. February 19, 1915.

My Dear Little Girl, There seems something familiar about the date to-day. I had almost forgotten & only but remembered this afternoon when we came in. Fancy me 29. It seems terribly old. An interesting coincidence is that to-day. we complete six months service & are now all soldiers in the full sense of the word Until today we were only recruits. All the Citizen Force boys in this force will not be compelled to do any more training in Australia they have completed six months continuous service. The subalterns who had not received their second star were all promoted to first lieutenants to-day No mail again this week. What a terribly long week it is now only one day in 14 to look forward to. I am not sure if a mail leaves from here this week. The papers publish no information & our brigade Post Office know nothing; they only make up the mails & send them into Cairo on Mondays
where they are forwarded by at the first  opportunity. I believe there are only 3 mails a week to Australia now but when they go I don't know. We have had quite an interesting week of Brigade manoeuvres. It has been advancing attacks defences retirements & night work. Tuesday we had a light day & at 7 we went out on an advance attack & assault on a position at 'Tigers Tooth' an outcrop of several sharp pointed small hills where the 3rd Brigade rangers are. The Brigadier gave us a very difficult formation to advance with & we evidently carried it out to his satisfaction  as he sent us in at 2 O'clock instead of 6 as was originally intended and said we had carried out movement that could only have been done by well trained troops. Our manoeuvres are interesting as we always have an enemy in the shape of flags which either represent a platoon or company Different coloured flags represent superior fire, equal fire, weaker fire, cavalary etc. Heliograph flashes represent the different kinds of fire by the enemy & kettle drum rattles, machine gun fire 
If it is an advance & a red flag  shows, we cannot move forward until  steps have been taken to overcome it  by moving in reinforcements & of course  this must be done without weakening  any of the line sufficiently for the  enemy to ge pierce it.  On Thursday  & to-day the manoeuvres were carried  out on a new ground to us, the  other side of the pyramids. It is  similar to the cana desert at th on  this side except that is not quite  so hilly.  Yesterday we marched in  going right alongside the Pyramids  & past Mena House on to the camp road  or 'Canberra St.' as it sign posts name  it.  Next week we have Divisional training  & then I believe we slacken off a lot.  We may have a four days bivouac  like  the 1st Brigade; but nothing has  been rumoured about it.  I dont  think we are likely to move from  here for some time.  There have been  three cases altogether of smallpox  none of them recent but I hardly think  they would move us until a quarantine  time had passed from the last case 
Wednesday was our leave day  but all the Brigade had vaccination  parade.  All who had not taken sufficiently  to show marks were done a gain.  This  is not really necessary but they  evidently were taking no risks. I  was done again  but up to now there  have been no signs.  We were the  last company to go through at about  3 o'clock.  Poor Harry Nott looked  quite fed up, he had been at it from  8 o'clock.  We were then free to go  to Cairo.  I didn't find anything new  Several of us had a bonzer dinner  at the Restaurant Parisien.   We always  have afternoon tea at Groppi's or Saulto  two celebrated 'Confiserie Cafes'  I think  I told you about the wonderful creations  you select yourself from the glass cases  before you go into the tables.  Wednesday  was evidently not reckoned as a holiday  as we are to get from 10 to 10.30 tomorrow  Last Post has gone so I may not be able  to continue until Sunday.  Saturday afternoon I have not been into  Cairo after all 'mafeesh filoose', no money,  or at least not enough to make it  worth while. I have found from experience 
Sunday evening. On Saturday afternoon a swim in the baths & then went out  to the Heliopolis Sporting Club with others  to get some Crosses. A Lancaster Territorial  Regiment had lent us 15 sticks so we went  out to get them. This Regiment the 6th has  about 60 Lacrosse players. And Manchester  is very strong in the game and most of  the best players enlisted in a bunch 
We got wind of Lacrosse being played in  Egypt by the notice in a paper of a match.  We promptly wrote a letter to them asking  them for a loan of sticks which they were  kind enough to do.  They were very anxious  to meet an all Australian team as they  had practically an all England team.  We got their letter on Thursday so posted  a notice in the mess sheds straight away  calling a meeting to form a 10th Battalion  Lacrosse Club.  Fifteen turned up. Captain  Nott was elected to the chair.  The officers  elected were Patron Col. Weir (We thought  about electing Lord Kitchener) President Cap.  Nott; Vice presidents Major Harcombe &  Lieut Eric Talbot-Smith (an old player) Captain  your humble servant Vice Captain Serg Gordon  Secy & Treas. R H White and the usual  committee of 5 & a selection committee  of 3. We arranged a match for to-day with the 9th (Queensland.) It took  place this afternoon on a ground alongside  the train terminus. They were very weak  but had several Victorians to  help them. The servers had arranged  to come out at 3.30 with 9 more  sticks to make up the 24 needed. They  did not arrive until after 4 so we started 
2.30.  left Mudros Bay  April 24th Sat.  Imbros Is.   about 8,  just after dark.  waited for several hours.  Aboard Foxhound 11.30.  parted  Ionian midnight  3.30 got into small boats  

with 7 on our side & 8 on theirs.  We quickly  threw 6 goals so I got our chaps to hang  off a bit & give them a chance  At half time  the scores were 8 - 4.  Before we started  the rest of the sticks arrived so we both  had full teams.  We finished at 11 to 1.  For next Thursday we are trying to arrange  a match with the Victorians & next  Saturday the 3rd Brigade & Manchester  if we can get leave.  I expect I will  be very stiff tomorrow but I don't feel  tired yet.  There was a chap from the  3rd came over to see me to-day about  Lacrosse matters  Incidentally he was  able to give me some very useful  information about those commissions.  He has a friend, a major, attached to  Divisional Headquarters  The information  is as follows.  A batch of 42 Australians  will go to England within a fortnight  He is one of them  A second batch of about  double the number a little later & then  a third.  He is finding out to-morrow  if our 5 are among any of them.  He  thinks he remembers Blackburns name  in the second.  Our little crowd will be getting smaller  Phil Robin was appointed a lance corporal
That appears to me a ridiculous thing  to write.  You have no idea how difficult it  is to keep up two forms of correspondence  especially when one is to be censored & the  other may never reach you.  Well good night.  Little Girl.  They expect a short land campaign  on Gallipoli.   Your ever loving boy  Tom. 