
Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte
Rank: Private
Date: 24 December 1914
Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt
Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade
Nationality: Australian

Text:

Mena Camp near Cairo. December 24th, 1914.


My Dear Little Girl, It is getting near midnight. I have been keeping awake purposely thinking hard of you. It does not seem a bit like Christmas. The officers have been having a bit of a shivoo in their mess tents, a bit of singing has been going on in some of the men's tents but otherwise there is nothing to distinguish it from any other day. There has only been the usual amount of leave to-day. Sports are to be held for the 10th to-morrow. This mail business is getting fearfully serious. The mail the other day was only a small one nearly all Queensland & Sydney letters sent via America to London & forwarded here with a few English letters. No mail has come direct from Australia yet. There is a silver lining to the cloud however I have just been over to the 3rd Brigade tent P.O. The two clerks are working hard sorting a big mail which we are promised to-morrow. You can't imagine what a tremendous  longing I have for a letter Two months is a long time to be without any news of you whatever. Christmas Day 1 am. I have been thinking hard of you lying in bed smoking. I have been trying to go over every incident since that happy fate first brought us to-gether Do you remember the Adelaide Station a certain afternoon in April 1912? I think it was the reading of that delightful letter in Sydney with the '6o' on the back of the envelope that settled me finally. I have been thinking of all those wonderful trips times in the hills, on the river, on the beach in the summerhouse in the dining & breakfast rooms & best of all in the drawing rooms and those peevish rows dows  we used to have, which we only had to enjoy the making up. Oh you were a Penelope in those days. Still you were more concerned over a certain tall lady than you used to admit, so I had my revenge. I wonder  if Stewart has been in any of the fighting in Africa. I heard some news yesterday that will interest you. A man in the Engineers Corps who knows General Bridges was here seeing Stokes & Fisher. The general told him that we would never see any real action. We might go to France in the Spring, but guarding lines of communication was the most we could hope for. The troops have improved wonderfully during the fortnight we have been here, that is as far as ceremonial drill is concerned. 
We can slope, order or present arms with any regulars & as for steadiness when standing at ease, you can hardly detect a movement. In the army this is always emphasised as a special point, exactly why, I can't tell. We had a very interesting three days this week. We A Company took up a position which B company had to attack. We spent two days on entrenchments & surveying our position & the third day B Coy attacked. The first attack was messed up by both, & the Colonel who was umpire ordered it to be done again. This time we both distinguished ourselves & got a lot of praise from Colonel Weir. B Coy were declared the winners much to our surprise. Of course sham fights are very unsatisfactory affairs as good shooting counts for nothing. Well I had better go to sleep now Goodnight sweetheart. 
Christmas Day I had a most delightful morning. I skipped Church parade & got your letter of Nov 5. You can't imagine how delightful it was. I have only read it over 3 times yet, but will read it through once a day until  the next arrives. It was wonderful reading it. I actually cried & laughed. I felt oh so homesick the last week, I never wanted you so much; but the letter made a wonderful difference after a bit. I am only looking forward to the next now. I had one from mother & Teo too. I must tell you about to-day. We had a real blowout for dinner. Turkey was off but we had a delicious stew instead. Cauliflower & potatoes, plum pudding, canned pears, currant lunch biscuits and a large bottle of champagne among 5 of us. Harry holt gave us the wine as a surprise. There was only one toast 'Absent friends' The sports were held this afternoon but I didn't attend. I went up the hill near the pyramids to read your letter again. I had some afternoon tea at Mena Cafe with Stokes and a chap on H.Q. Staff named Scott-Young. It has been more like a Sunday than Christmas Day. I feel very sorry for Phil. Robin & Micky Smith. They received no letters. as theirs  Smiths had his all addressed to his bank in London & they have not been forwarded yet.  Robins' girl is in London but is coming to Egypt with her mother. Later Just received your cable, You are a darling. You can't imagine the joy it gave me I stared at it for a long time Several of the others got cables too, but I'll bet they didn't get the enjoyment I did. I am sorry I have not got my photo taken yet. The 14/- a week goes nowhere in Cairo although everything is so cheap that is why I suppose. We are to get our back pay next week so I will get it taken then. I wont send you a cable, it will be too late for Christmas. I don't know how you feel about it but I always hate getting presents even a day before or after       7 the day. I heard something to-day that is fairly reliable. We may possibly be here only until the end of January & then go to the South of France to continue our training We are a long long way from being fit for the field. It looks as if we will be doing garrison duty there etc. to relieve those million French trained soldiers who are evidently intended for the Spring movement. The result of the War looks very rosy. The Germans are evidently all out. The If they do not cave in before the Spring they won't have the ghost of a hope when the 2 or 3 million allies reinforcements get to them. It is practically certain we will never be anywhere near the front. They may make use of the Light Horse for special work but I will be very surprised if we ever fire a shot. We are to start the double Company drill on Monday. This was introduced into the British army early this year. It is rather difficult to explain. There will be the same number of men in a battalion but only in 4 companies Each company has a first & second in command & is split up into 4 platoons with a subaltern to each. A lot of the non-com. positions are altered so Jack Gordon may possibly be reduced to Lance- Sergeant.  It will take a lot of  getting into, as it means practically learning our Company & battalion drill again.  Keith Green may possibly get second in command of  our Company. I will answer your letter on  Sunday afternoon. Goodnight Darling. Sunday. I am writing this in the canteen tent. They provide tables & forms to seat a couple of hundred so letter writing is so much more comfortable than in our tents. It is too hot to go up on the sand hills. This place is remarkable for the extremes of temperature You need all four blankets at night & look for shade in the day time. I have just read your letter for the fifth time. You felt much like I did the first month. If it hadn't been for being caught I believe I would have sloped back to S.A. Still I am gradually getting resigned but it still hurts a lot. I did not send a telegram from Fremantle as I had no means of getting one off until we had been there a couple of days. Always remember no news is good news. You will hear quickly enough if anything goes wrong. Our tent have an arrange- ment that way. I am dying to hear all about Molly. It will be hard to realise her quickly growing brain. I am glad I was wrong about you & her. Keep me posted about here new sayings. I sent that dilapidated p.c. from Fremantle I hope you received it. I am enclosing the photo we had taken on the Ascanius of the Colonel's boat crew. I only got hold of one yesterday 
I put the names on in case you would not recognise me. What are the outings you have arranged for us? I hope Morphetville is not one. I have posted an illustrated paper of a sort. The only Australian troops that took part in the march in Cairo were the Queensland Light Horse. The behaviour of the Aust. troops has been excellent. You see very little drunkeness, less than in Adelaide + 20000 of here, to times as many as were in Adelaide. They pay for anything they get, not like in South Africa. Occasionally there may be a bit of a row always caused by some native trying to cheat. The Cairenes like us better than the [[Terriers]] or N.Z. Everyday nearly there is a letter in the paper praising us. I don't know whether they will still appear after we get our back pay. I don't think I told you of the wonderful vegetables we get here. Cabbages larger than you ever saw, with perfect hearts & not the sign of the grub. Cauliflowers the same and beautiful new  potatoes. Onions & leeks are  plentiful too. The tomatoes are large & good. The natives say it only takes 4 weeks to grow a cabbage. Well I think I have exhausted all the news this week. I really enjoy writing these letters, something I never thought possible. I imagine I am talking to you all the time. Well, keep on smiling darling it won't be more than [[5?]] months now.  Goodnight little girl. Your loving husband Tom.