In Billets Somewhere in France June 8th 1916  Dear Mum. Well I hope this finds you well as I am fit & well. we are still in Billets training for a special job I dont know when it will be coming off but I think that it will be within the week. I am writing this a couple of days before the date as it generally takes me about 2 or 3 days to write a letter when I am busy. I have not been on my leave yet & I don't suppose I will be going until I get this job finished. How is Bob getting on now? has he said anything to you yet. I had a letter from Blanche & Frank the other day & they wrote like an old married couple. They got married in the Cong. Church. Blanche stopped at Frank's peoples place before they got married. It seems strange to me for Blanche to be married & one can hardly realize the difference that 12 months make. Is Jack keeping good & not worrying you too much We have had a couple of casualties lately 2 of our & one of our Cpls have been wounded pretty badly. The Germans had a day in on our front they
one of our areoplanes & a captive balloon & a battery of guns the other day besides killing & wounding some, but I believe we worry them a good bit. according to reports our areoplanes dropped bombs on an ammunition store in Lille which is just about 6 miles the other side of our trenches opposite us & blew it up and caused an explosion which blew up two streets & at another time our big guns got range out to a big white farm that the Germans used for sleeping in & in one shot from each gun levelled the place fro to the ground, so you see that they don't have it all their own way by a long way. It is a pity that we can't go ahead here a bit & relieve the pressure on Verdun C which is being pressed pretty hard just now. But I suppose the heads know best or think that they do. I hope Ev is coming over to see you occasionally, as I have wrote to her an told her I would give her a black eye if she didnt. Well I must close now with love to all of you from your Loving Son, Wally xxx