Colombo. 14/11/1914. Dear Father & Mother We left Sydney. on Sunday 18th oct. we went direct to Albany where we arrived the following Sunday morning at 5 a.m. We were all vastly  Excited when we first struck a warship off C. Howe. & it caused a good deal of speculation till we got close enough to recognize the 'Melbourne'. We saw very little of the other transports on the way bar the 'Suffolk' which was close on our heels across the Bight. On arriving at Albany there were 7 or 8 boats already there. A paper cost me 6d from a tug alongside The none of the ships anchored in the   inner harbour.  Then as the boats required stores or water they would take turns to go to the wharf alongside the town. We went in on the Friday (30th Oct) & had the 'Benalla' on the opposite side of the wharf she carried the 7th Batt. & the 2nd Brigade (Victoria) besides some other details. They went out for a route march in the morning & managed to lose 12 men – who I suppose were brought on by the police later. We followed them in the afternoon & took about an 8 mile step. I think we impressed the Albanians – – for we had several complimentary remarks made afterwards. 
From what we've seen of the other battalions we seem to have better control - The Afric had the reputation at Albany of being the quietest boat.– Even the Orvieto which carried the general was a fairly rowdy mob. On the 'Benalla' the men even hooted one of their sergeants when doing his duty - - On Wednesday morning we were greeted with the fine sight of the N.Z. contingent arriving consisting of 10 troopships and 3 escorts. They were, contrary to us, all painted grey like the warships. Sat (31st) we had a fire on board, which happened to be right underneath where my company was sleeping. It was discovered about 5.30 a.m. Fortunately it had little hold & did not take more than an hour to put out & clean up. The men behaved very well, fell in on their deck posts without any trouble & kept quite quiet. The worst damage done was to some cargo (sugar) which was spoilt by the salt water- we knew that we were  sailing early next morning. The night was beautifully clear & the fleet look exceptionally fine with its lights & the morses twinkling all over the place. At 5.45 a.m the 'Minotaur' steamed out followed by the 'Melbourne'. The transport flagship Orvieto
then followed & the rest in order. There were 36 transports in all; we were the 20th down the line. The sight was one I don't expect ever to see the like of again - the day was perfect & you could see almost every boat as the steamed out & then took the big turn westward ho! . I noticed a moving picture man on Breaksea Isld as we moved out so no doubt there will be pictures showing of this event before long. Outside we formed into our three lines & incidentally picked up the Jap Warship & H.M.A.S. Sydney. - The slowest boat is the 'Southern' (A. 27.) She does just over 10 knots & sets the pace for the whole fleet. - - - It takes some time to adjust the speed correctly. We seemed to be almost ramming the 'Shropshire' quite often & being rammed by the 'Benalla'. The engine room telegraph is going almost all the time On Tuesday (3rd Nov) the 'Medic' & 'Ascanius' joined us. they came direct from Fremantle. - on Sunday & Monday the warships made strange antics careering at full speed here & there – by Jove they did look fine too. It was evident on Monday morning that something was up for the Sydney disappeared at 6.15 & the Ibuki Maru went off about 10.30 with guns trained 
& national flag flying. We heard at noon that the Emden had been beached Gordon.   Sketch of fleet   