Tel-el-Kebir 62 Miles from Cairo Egypt, 20/1/1916.

Dear Mum, We have shifted again you see & are now in Egypt. We evacuated the Peninsula on Dec 20th then we were at Lemnos for a couple of weeks & now we are at Tel-el-Kebir. We are camped along a road which runs alongside the Cairo to Pt Said railway There is the 2 Australian Divisions here, and I can tell you it is alright to walk along the road from the first Battalion to the 28th Battalion. The only Aust forces that are not here is the 8th Brigade. that is the brigade the 32nd are in & they are down on the Suez Canal. on Outpost Duty. Just behind where we are camped is the old Battle-field of Tel-el Kebir & you can get skulls & old pieces of shells & some of the chaps have got them for curios. I am sending you a ghurka's knife & a Turkish Bayonet & some Turkish Bullets home for Curio's I will buy you something if I get to Cairo but I don't think, we will get a chance to get up there, because we are training hard. & I think we will be moving again soon. I have got all the parcels you sent & I am was very glad to receive it. I got 4 parcels & last mail. from Aust I got 5 letters from you all at once & the same from Ev so you can see how irregular we get our mails & they send them away just the same.
We were only allowed to send letters in last week again they are the first letters we have been able to send away since we left Gallipoli so you see we are not able to send our mail regular. I am still keeping well & am still holding my job as C.S.M. But don't know what day I will have to come down to Sgt again. I hope we get into the fighting again soon as it is dead slow here, but we are training hard. I am expecting to see Fred Hisgrove over here soon as Ev said in her last letter that he was likely to leave on the 20th of Dec. so he ought to be here soon. We had a case of meningitis in our Coy. & resulted in a death yesterday, but I hope that it doesn't spread as it is pretty bad. I must close now as it is getting late with love to all from XXXXX your Loving Son, Wally. P.S. I suppose everyone is wild over the evacuation of Anzac. but they wouldnt be if they could only see the place & think what the loss of life would be.