From Sgt  D W Caldwell 27th June, 1915.
Batt. 7th inf Reg't "B" Coy.  Dear Mum. Well we got here allright the day before yesterday at about 3.30 AM in the early morning after coming overland from Pt Suez. We were lying in Suez a couple of days before we landed, we were waiting to go through the canal, but they wouldn't let us go through as there was a steamer blown up the day before we got there: We are now in Heliopolis about 6 miles out of Cairo, and by jove Mum you ought to see the bieutiful buildings there is here, and there isn't nobody much living in them. I believe when it was built it was meant to compete with Monte Carlo, but the British Government stepped in and wouldnt let them go on with it consequently there is most of these buildings going to waste. I went down to see if I could see Tom Cook yesterday but he t was discharged from there on the 30.4.15 so I suppose he is back at the front f by now. There is thousands of wounded in the hospitals here alone, and there is a lot more places around Cairo with wounded, in them. I went into Cairo last night we go in by tram it is about 6 miles and it only costs a 1 piastre (a penny farthing. but it is the only thing that is cheep over here. Cairo is is parts very dirty and rotten. but in other parts all is very clean. We get plenty to do over here g we get up at 5 AM and drill from 5.45 AM to 9.30 AM and. 
11 am to 12 noon and from 4.30. to 7pm. so you see we get plenty of work to do. The Pyramids is about 20 miles from where wt we are camped & I think I am going over for a t trip on Sunday if I can get off. I got a letter from Blanche yesterday. and was glad to here that you got home alright. They are talking about putting us into the 5th Inf. and if we do we will be in the firing line in about a (expurgated text) but otherwise we will be here about a fe (expurgated text). The Camp we are in is a very big one it is about 4 times the size of the Mitcham Camp. We have tents to sleep and a big wooden shed with tables in to eat in, and also for lectures. We get good tucker now. We have a mess on our own. We have Egyptian waiters & Cooks & they feed us up like fighting Cocks We havent had any money since we left so I am a bit short but when we get payed I will buy you something or other and send you. I was glad to hear you had the tank fixed up. I hope bob has brought the boat home by now & if he hasn't you might shake him up. I must close now with love to all from, Wall. P S. Write to the Same address as we might change our camp. 