Heliopolis'  September 1st 1915   Dear Mother,  I recieved your letter  yesterday it is about the 5th I have recieved  & I have also recieved a lot of papers & I was  glad to have them. & I was also pleased to  hear that you had a good time up at  Broken Hill. This is my 8th letter since  we came here so you will know how many  you have recieved. We are off to the front  tomorrow for certain we are all packed up  ready to go. We may stay at Lemnos for a  week or two. It seems to be the general  idea that we are going to make a fresh landing  there will be about 20,000 Australians going  when we leave Lemnos, That will be the whole  of the second Aust Division. I will look after  myself & not be too rash, but I mean to  do my bit. We had a stiff Medical Exam  test today. All the old tent mates passed  alright. Harry Aldersen has been shifted  to Divisional Headquarters & it is a jolly  good job too as he would have been 
sent back as an inefficient soldier he  was fooling around a lot before he went  away, he wont see much of the front now  I have just heard that we are supposed  to make a fresh landing just North of  Gaba Tepe. I suppose the 27th will be well  to the fore I am going to send you home my  will & 2 certificates with this letter, as I forgot  them in the last one & I am also sending  of one of our colours that we wear when  we go to the front. I hope you are keeping  well also all the rest of them. I am also  sending a photo of the Sgt's in our tent whith  the names attached. I recieved a letter just  this minute from Aunty & she is at Gazierh  Palace Hospital & I am going out this afternoon  to see her if possible. She was on the Dundnee  Castle but she has been shifted back now. We were out at the Kasr. El Nil Barracks we  were on picket duty in Cairo & mum you  never saw such sights in your life we  were right on the Banks of the Nile. They are  very old barracks. They were up before Napoleons  Time because the French Army were in Barracks  there & y we saw the Place where Napoleon had 
his officers mess & it is just alongside the  barracks. I will write every time I can when  we get to the front. All the men are very  glad to be going tomorrow, because we  have been training very hard & it is all  desert sand that we do our drilling in.  We had a 8 or 9 miles route march yesterday  afternoon with our full packs on & I can  tell you it is pretty hard. I must close  now with love & a kiss to you from  Wally X. 