Mudros West Lemnos Island. December 16th, 1915.  Dear Mum, Well we have shifted again as you see we have been brought across here. But I don't know what for though but I think we are going to organise our Batt & then go either to Salonica or to the Suez, there seems to be heaps of trouble for the Allied Forces at both these places. I think they are going to send a big lot of Australians to one or the other of these places. They are drawing most of our troops off of Gallipoli at least at Anzac, in fact everything points to an evacuation of the Peninsula I think we will be shifting again tomorrow to somewhere else on the Island. I am keeping very well just now & I hope you are all the same at home. I have still got my job of Coy Sgt Major but I don't know how long I will keep it, but I seem to be pleasing them so that is the main thing. There is only a few small Greek villages here & most of the rest is all under canvas. There must be hundreds of thousands of troops here on the Peninsula Island. There is one good thing about this place we are not
troubled about water as we were on the Peninsula I have just been told that we shift tomorrow morning at 10 o'clock we have only been here two days & we are going off again, we just get a camp straight then we have to shift again & it was just the same on the Peninsula. Mum y one feels a lot safer on the Island than I did on the Peninsula. & I can tell you it makeys you bob a bit when you get the shells screaming overhead. Well mum I don't think there is many of us that want to go back to the peninsula for a while. But I hope we get right into it at the next place we go to there isn't no fun in standing off for weeks & looking at the Turks, we all want a "fair dinkum go". According to the papers the people in S.A think  that the 10th are a wonderful lot but I think the 16th have a lot more to their credit. & also the 9th L Horse, (that is a S.A. lot). They have had a terrible cutting up. they were in one charge & only on came back to tell the tale so you can see that there is more than one lot over here. I  must close now with love to all & don't you worry about me now from "Wally"