9th CADET BATTALION, GAILES.  September 17th, 1916.  Dear old Mum. Well old lady here we are again, still alive & kicking & keeping my end up. Are you well. also is Jack & Bob keeping alright. Has Dad got better and working again, I am sending him a letter addresed to you so you can post it on to him, will you? Look Blanche sent home & told you that she had given me that £5 pounds she owed you. I had to get it to enable me to buy some clothes suitable for a cadet & I can tell you I havn't near enough yet. Money seems to go nowhere at all here in fact it seems to fly. & I was always pretty good at doing that. I go about a good bit & have the best of times & I can assure you you cannot do it on nothing as you know. I will have to get a lot more things yet so if you do happen to have sent that £10 I wired for it will be 
quite alright because I will keep it to buy some things such as a valise & some odd clothes when I get finished here & am going back to my unit. which I will need very much. I have had to buy a portmanteau & dozens of things I could have done without had I stopped in France. I can tell you I am a flash kid now. But Mum. I still don't smoke or drink & have no wish to do so. so I have not acquired bad habits since coming to England. Blanche writes regular to me but I am as usual very irregular, but she should know me by now. I hope to get my commision about the middle of October with a bit of luck & suppose you will reckon it a bit of alright having a boy a Lieut, oh swank!. fancy Leut Lieut D.W. Caldwell. on my letters. oh stop it you wretch. Have you seen Ev lately & is she looking as well as I would like her to be see you let me
know. By jove you can tell Dad that the Scotch Girls are alright they are jolly fine. but they are awful flirts. to be sure. But I get on very well with them. But mind you tell Ev nothing of this because there is not one to come near her. although some are sports I have played golf with one or two, I can tell you I am getting quite & expert at golfing I am going around this afternoon if it is fine which will not be probable as it is raining & blowing th like one thing just now. There is a golf course running right alongside of our camp. in fact they are all along the Ayrshire coast. Well Mum I hope this finds you all well at home give my best wishes to Grandmother & Grandfather & Aunty and love & kisses to you from your loving Son. XXXXXXX Wally. XXXXXX XXXX 