Transport "Ivernia"  September 10th 1915   Dear Mum  Just a line to let you  know that we have got as far as Lemnos  & we are off to Gallipoli today sometime  so you see we are getting near to it now.  We shipped at Alexandria last Saturday  morning early & arrived here on Tuesday  morning early we had a narrow shave of  getting torpedoed. There was a boat  torpedoed a couple of days before. I think  it is pretty near the end of the dardan -  elles now. I think there is going to be  a big general advance in a day or two  & once they get started it will take a  good bit of stopping. By jove mum  you ought to see the warships in  this harbour there is dozens of them of  all sizes & shapes. This Lemnos island  it seems to be a fairly large place. It seems  that Turkey reckoned she owned it & Greece  thought She owned it, so at the beginning  of the war England stepped in & took
it, & at the end of the war she is to hand  it over to Greece. When we came in there  were dozens of transportation, The '  Mauritania' was amongst them she is about  40,000 tons & since then the Aquitania has  come in & she is about 50,000 tons she is going  to be used as a base hospital ship here at  Lemnos. I wrote last time & told you I  saw Aunty well I didn't get time to  see her again. I am in real good  condition & couldn't feel better & I  hope you, are the same. It reminds  me when I put Sept 10th to my letter of  Jacks Birthday. Well you can wish  him many happy returns of his  Birthday from me. You don't want  to take any notice of any rumours  you might have heard before this  about us being in action, because I  saw by one of the Chronicles I got a  picture of our Battalion marching  through Cairo, which wasn't true at  all because we never went through  Cairo at all we were about 8 miles from 
there so you see the papers are a lot of  lies but there is one thing you don't see  all of & that is all the lists of wounded & killed  not by a long way. We'll give the Turks  hell when we get there Mum, We are  all anxious to get there & get it over.  but all the Australians are the same.  Our boys haven't got any time for the  British Tommies. They reckon they are not  much good. You hear a lot about the Turks  running away from the bayonet but  they tell us that they stand up with  the best of ours, but our boys are too  good for them. I must close now with  love to all & a kiss to you from,  XXXX Wall