Gallipoli Peninsula Anzac September 12th, 1915.   Dear Mum,  Still alive & kicking you see & I   am just as well as ever & I hope this finds you  all the same. We are having a fair time over  here lately we do one day in the trenches in four  but we are on pick & shovel work 2 days also. But  I don't have to do much as I am in charge of the  platoon & I do pretty well as I like. We no havent lost  a man yet in the trenches but I have lost 5 of my  platoon on the terrace with shrapnel. Cpl Kelleway  was amongst them he got his left fore finger pretty well  knocked off, he has been sent to Egypt. Sickness  takes twice as many away from here as bullets  dysentry & rhuematism is the two prevailing things  here. I am free of both. We all live on terraces on above  the other on the side of a hill and all we have over us  is our own waterproof sheet then you have to ly on the   damp ground but I have got a good cover & I ly  on my sheet. It is very cold here just now. I suppose  we will be having snow here shortly they say there  is about a five feet fall here so things will be  only middling but you don't need to worry
about me no harm will come to me there has been  two or three times since I landed here that men have  been wounded on either side of me, & I will look after  myself as far as sickness is concerned. The Turks  brought one of our aeroplanes down yesterday  with rifle fire but he landed well in our lines &  not much damage done. Some of our Sgts in the  Batt have been made Lieutenant's lately, but I dont  suppose I am likely to get one because I haven't  the "Kick in the Behind" some have, but I may get  a chance one of these days when we get a chance to  show what we are made of. I think some of them  will be dirtying their trousers when they get the  order to charge. I am well satisfied with my  platoon they are good workers & good fighters &  very cheerful & no matter what conditions the  wh weather is in they are allways up to some thing  or other. It is some view from where we are we can  see Anzac beach right down to Suvla Bay. & the ridge  of hills on which our chaps are fighting on the left  & we can see a couple of Islands right out to Sea & there  is some Crimson Sunsets. We get plenty of bombs & Shrapnel  over us, we had 76 shells burst over us in about ½ an hour  & not a man wounded it is alright, well I must end up  now with love to all & a kiss to you from 'Wall' X