Rest Gully Gallipoli, 
7th December, 1915.   Dear Mum  Just a few lines to let you know that I am  still alive & kicking we are on beach fatigue  again now & I think we are likely to be down  here for a while. We had snow here about 8 days  ago & after it finished snowing we had it very  cold & the snow froze & it caused a fair number  of our men to get frost bitten feet & a couple of  them are bound to lose their feet through it. I  can tell you when the snow thawed & the Sun  started to shine again they started to take the  frost bitten ones aboard the Hospital boats their  was a boat load of Gurka's with their feet  frost bitten. In dozens of places men were  found in trenches sleeping their last frozen  stiff with cold. I can tell you it is pretty rotten  to see some of them. The Turks got on to one  of our Hospitals & pretty well wiped it out  of existance with one of our their heavy guns  Tent full's of wounded & sick were killed &  maimed, but I suppose they were justified   in doing so as it was a bit close to a lot
of stores of all kinds. I received your letter yesterday saying that you were sending that parcel which I received with the last mail so you can see how irregular we get our mail here & it is just the same with ours leaving here they lay for some- times weeks in Batt. H.Q.'s as we are all the time shifting & as in the case in our shift we were packed up ready to shift for about 10 days so you see they couldn't send many letters away for about a fortnight so you can understand not  getting letters regular & not only that I am pretty busy just now as I am Sgt Major of the Beach Detachment & there is about 400 men here & I can tell you I get plenty of work to do. I hold the rank of Coy Sgt Major. now & I draw the money now; at least I will some day. There don't seem much chance of  me getting my commission yet a while but they say everything comes to them that waits & I hope it is true. Well mum time & paper is short so I must close now hoping you  are all as well as myself.  XXXXXX from  Your loving Son, "Wally"