H.M.S.S. Geelong. 25th June 1915.  Dear Mum. Just a line to let you know how I am getting on, well up to now I have enjoyed myself just the thing & had. good time We did not get ashore at Fremantle as we were only there a couple of days and the District Commandant would not let them get ashore, and I can tell you there was a shindy over it. For you see I didnt get any chance to see. Lil. I tried to get off but we didn't get any chance, There was a big crowd came down to see us come in and there was also a crowd to see us off. When I am writing this we are about 2. days out of, Aden but I don't think we are stopping there We did not go in to Colombo. So you see it is getting pretty monotanus for we havn't seen land since we left Fremantle. We have had a pretty calm trip up to now but yesterday & do today has been pretty rough well to let you know how rough it is not just as I started this letter a big wave washed in through the port hole and washed every thing before it 
I grabbed up my pad but it washed the ink away and I can tell you there was a mess. I am going to write to Ev after I have wrote this I suppose she has got over me leaving her a bit by now, and you need not worry about me which I suppose you are doing. I hope Bob has brought the boat home by now. & I hope Jack & him are doing a bit for you. I suppose you have got the tank fixed up by now. I hope by Ey Ev is coming to see you now and again to cheer you up. but I suppose she is working by now and doesn't get much time to come over. I suppose you will laugh when you read this but we have all got to grow a moustache. It to came out in orders that if we shaved the upper lip we would be crimed so you see we haven't got any chance of shaving it. mine is growing like any thing I will send you a photo if I grow a good one. (Expurgated section) I don't know how the war is going on now, I suppose it is just about the same. I will get a paper tomorrow. They print a paper on board called the 27th Gazette - but I haven't 
seen one yet. Sgt Fisher & I are the best of chums we put gave 5/- each to the cook and we get supper every night, we get pastry & all sorts of good things such as Turkey & chicken & fish & lots of other things, you see the cook & fisher are old chums so I am all right. We might see Cape Guardafuie today. and that will be the first land we have seen since we left Fremantle. Mum won't we have a good time if we go to England. I guess we will make things lively over there & there is some talk of us going to Marsielles. I will be all right there too. We have been getting plenty of drill on board since we left Fremantle. we have about 6 hours a day and that is quite enough with the weather we have been getting. I hope you are all keeping well. I must close now with love to all. from, Wall.  P.S. my address is  No 290. Sgt D W. Caldwell "B." Coy 27th Batt. 7th Infantry Brigade. England or Abroad. 