Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 6 December 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


6. 12. 1916.  My dear Harry & Linda  Your welcome notes  came safely to hand this mail followed  in a day or two by the papers & parcel  of note paper which is very acceptable,  indeed, Many thanks old chooks' I am  now awaiting Linda's "colic producer" with great expectations & am sure it  will give me great "stomach" for our next  scrap with the Turks which will occur  — when you see it in the papers,  for I fear me that I would infringe the  censorship regulations if I said anymore.  You mentioned Mr Gillanders of the Y.M.C.A.  in your letter - I must really pay a  tribute to the work that the Association has  done during this war, it has certainly outdistanced  all the churches & won fo the respect  [*P.S  I fear that my prospects getting any of those little  items from Linda for foreign missions are poor as we were  unexpectedly sent out again sooner than I thought & I'm afraid  I wont be in Cairo again for some time*]
& sympathy of all the men out here. Whenever  camps are found , there y one will also find  Y M C A  tents Even here in close proximity   to the Turks  where we might at any time have  to pick up our bundles & move forward or   backward in an hurry, a Y M C A tent has  been put up during the last day or two, where the  men can purchase a few things & write their  letters & so on. While in our rest camp the  man in charge of it organised  football  matches in which great interest was taken. On  the other hand, little interest is taken by the  men in the usual denominational churches &  though some of the padrés are popular (one for  instance who left us some three months ago Collick  by name from Koolgardie was beloved by everyone)  the men's usual attitude is that they wish the  padré wasn't here so that they would not  be dragged off to church parade. And   contrary to what we all anticipated, the  imminence of death &  uncertainty of life on  active service does not make men think more 
of religion & it's consolations. Do not  think for a moment that I am attempting  to decry the church or it's pastors who  have come out here, but that is the  actual state of affairs Military service  does not tend to make a man more  religious but on the contrary makes many  forget the influences under which they lived  their former ideals & has in an alarming   number of cases an discouraging undermining influence on  their morals. You may notice this yourself  in home camps & may imagine how much  greater it is when men are quite removed  from all their former influences. It was  indeed my pal "Pete" Graham who was  killed in France - he was hit in the  arm & later developed gas gangrene &  succumbed - poor old Peter he was a fine  chap & one of our smartest men & I believe  an only child. I fear that my chances of picking up Beatty's messages in Cairo are  very small as I fear we are doomed to the  desert for quite a long time now. (I'm bothered  if the Y M C A haven't brought out a harmonium  or something, as the strains of some hymn are  now being wafted over the desert from their tent  in the moonlight). Glad to hear that Linda's  health is improving & that she is quite herself again,  I suppose she will be a portly old thing (!) when  I return. I'm getting quite a corporation now,  I fear that I will be the only member of the  family to develop an excess of abdominal fat  in my maturer years. Still I fancy Lin  may become a second Mrs Bob Jardine if she  goes on as she has begun & will come along  palpating & panting "O my gracious" & trying to  palm young Joyce on to some respectable  family of young men. After this I think  I'd better close or I may tie myself  in a knot so cheer o! my worthy old  couple  Your loving brother  Wilf.