Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 17 March 1917
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


17.3.1917 My dear mother, Your welcome letter of Jan 26th & "Ginger Mick" came safely to hand yesterday I must write & thank Dr & Mrs Sharp. - don't know their address but will send it to you to forward. So you have been busily engaged making jam & chutney - how well I can picture you in the kitchen preparing the fruit, & skimming & bottling the jam, & wish I could drop in & taste some, as I hope to do sometime in the next few months. Did I wish you many happy returns on your 60th birthday - I really forget, but if I did not my dear, you know that if the wish were not expressed on paper, you know it is the desire of my heart for you to have hundreds of thousands of them. Since I last wrote you hurriedly when moving camp, we have moved a good deal. I completed my work of striking tents & cleaning up the camp & then after storing a good deal of the heavy stuff, I brought my little party along the beach in easy stages. We had a delightful trip as the weather was such a contrast to that which we had experienced during the previous days, when one of those wretched khampsiens had been raging which I described last year & which occur during  the next two or three months Our camp had been perched on top of a hill where we were subjected to it's full force & the task of striking & folding large tents was very difficult in such a high wind, although several of them were blown down by the wind. It ceased however on the day we moved out & the conditions were ideal We took two limbered wagons with us, to carry our rations & horse feed & camped out in the open at night, with plenty of blankets as it is still cold at night. (Tell father I'm afraid I don't wear the abdominal belt that was recommended to him when I was leaving & don't think it is very often worn by many here anyone) The sand along the beach was quite firm for our limbers to travel on so we made good  progress & rising early on the following morning came up with the main party of the Ambulance at breakfast time, fa & after feeding with them pushed on all together. We reached our destination that afternoon & laid out our camp & are now fairly comfortably settled though not so much as before as we are unable to bring all the stuff we had before. Some of our people have gone over to look at the spot where we had so many exciting experiences described to you in a previous letter & I hope to go myself in a day or two. You will have read of the Turks evacuating their strong position in Southern Palestine in the paper recently & I must say I'm not sorry for the sake of our people as from all accounts it was very strongly fortified & some of the lads would have received hard knocks in the taking of it. Reconnaissances in this country are very interesting now as it is inhabited & the natives sell eggs & oranges which you may imagine are a boon here when it is impossible to get them from Egypt. 18.3.1917 Got interrupted here my dear, & haven't had a minute to finish it since & want to send it away so must close it instead of writing a decent letter after all. We are off on a reconnaissance in the small hours of the night 
so I want to get to bed as it's nearly nine o'clock now so can't write anything Much love & a hug from Your loving son Wilf