Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 3 July 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


3.7.1916  My dear mother,  A mail came in yesterday  & I'm pleased to say that I at last  received a couple of letters, one from you & one  from no less a person than Blanche Cavanough.  I think two or three letters from you are missing,  the 48th arrived from you this time written  from Goulburn but I have no trace of the 46th  or 47th but they will probably arrive in time.  I hope you are beginning to receive our letters  again regularly. I was awfully glad to   hear that you had gone away for a trip  as a change is sure to be beneficial.  Wesley is still away & will probably be gone  for some time as his illness proved to be  typhoid fever & he has gone to Cairo. He  first went to Ismailia & was sent on  afterwards to the base at Cairo. I do  not think he will be ill long as  Colonel Powell who was attending  him at Ismailia told me that his  temperature was almost down to  normal when he was sent on. Typhoid  is rarely of a serious nature in those who
have been inoculated not much worse than influenza as a rule. Charles is rather lucky I think as he may be sent to  England to convalesce - wouldn't mind having it myself for that but don't think I have a ghost of a chance as I have just inoculated the regiment including myself against it. This is my third inoculation in three years for typhoid so I fancy I should keep clear of it. I am awfully sorry to lose my pal but feel glad for his sake as he will have a good change. I went up to Ismailia to see him on Saturday & was awfully disappointed to find that he had gone to Cairo the previous day. However I had a very enjoyable day, Major Sukmann went with me & we travelled part of the way on a hospital boat where there happened to be four nurses who had come down for a mornings trip, one of whom I knew & consequently knew the rest very soon. They had bought sandwiches & tea 
which we thoroughly enjoyed as we had started early & ridden a good way Then we had one of the real Australian apples which had been sent to the hospital recently & it was good. So the trip up was very enjoyable. Sukmann & went to the club for lunch, a very good lunch too & then went to the hospital to see some of the medicos there whom we knew, & I left Sukmann there about three o'clock & went to one of the wards for afternoon tea with Wesley's girl & another sister named Hart. I called back for Sukmann at about fo for 4.30 & we went for a garry drive round the township as he had not previously seen it & at five o'clock joined some of the other medicos in order to go down to the lake for a swim. And what a swim it was, the water of course was quite warm & we simply revelled in it for about an hour and a half. Then at seven oclock we went to the doctor's quarters for dinner & after the after dinner smoke sallied round to the Sisters
home to listen to some music. The Matron of strange to say is a friend of Dr Rennies & I met her at his place in Sydney several times. We had to catch a train at 9 30 p.m. & after that ride away out here so you can imagine we were rather weary by 1.30 a.m. when we got home. Still although the long ride at the end of the day is rather wretched the trip does one good as it breaks the dull monotony of life here. Otherwise we are jogging on as usual uneventfully while the various armies in Europe are endeavouring to exterminate each other & apparently with some measure of success. Best of love to the family with mother's extra share from Her loving son Wilf. Lots of Bulletins Sydney Mails Southern Records safely to hand by the mail Thanks to everyone 