Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 8 October 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Camp Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


8.10.1916. My dear mother,  We are expecting mail tomorrow or next  day as it already at Romani but I must answer write your  letter now or I will miss this mail. We have had another  stunt this week or in other words a reconnaissance to  the same place which we went to a couple of weeks  ago - El Maza. The Turks were reported to have  evacuated  the place soon after our last attack both  by prisoners & by our aeroplanes & the latter stated  there were some pumps left behind. A comparatively  small expedition was then organised to explore  the place & a small detachment of the Ambulance  accompanied it with two officers - Cave & myself.  We left here about ten oclock one morning &  returned the next evening about 8 o'clock after a long  fatiguing ride of over 40 miles. We followed as before  the old caravan route but the journey was not quite  so fatiguing as before as we had fairly frequent  halts & did not lose so much much sleep as we halted  for some hours on the ∧only night we were out & slept fairly well but it was jolly cold when we woke at 3.30 am,  with only one blanket over us, for the nights have  already become chilly. The Ambulance did not  go right to Maza but stopped  5 miles this side  & some of the Camel Corps went on. The place 
was first investigated by an aeroplane which  dropped a message to the effect that all was  clear & then the Camel Corps went into the place  The Turks had taken everything away  with them which was of any great value &  the only things remaining were a few old pumps,  about 20 in all & the tops of these were brought back  There were a number of wells there & so any horses  which went on had a drink but the remainder  could have none until we got back to Hod  Salmana about 22 miles this side of Maza  but people made various other reconnaissances  to the North & South in order to reconnoitre the  country, find wells & so on. Two old tracks go  to Maza forming alternative routes & the Northern one  is a splendid road except for a few miles. It is  just as hard as a properly macadamised  road as it runs for the most part through  lowlying moist ground which sets firmly especially  as the water being brackish deposits a layer  of salt & this helps to bind it. There are quite  a number of these " salt pans " in this region  which are quite white & dazzling. Then also just  where the sea fringes the shore there is an area of  dry hard salt & sand extending for miles over  which a motor car could be driven with ease  or even old Monty & the buggy.  You ought to get  a map & see just where we are - I can't tell you  exactly but you could get it approximately. 
I have seen maps in the Australian papers showing  Bir el Abd & then the road to El Maza which formed our route & then El Arish beyond which is held by the Turks and where they have an aeroplane base.  Of course interest has subsided in this part now owing to comparative inactivity but you may per chance have cut out a map at the time of the attack.  Ordinary atlases are not detailed enough  paper clippings are the best The dates are still in splendid order & are very enjoyeable - the weather good but we are all longing for a spell nearer the  Canal & leave which will only be given then. It is well over 4 months since I have been to civilization & I would like a trip now to Luxor & Assorian if  possible - you remember I wanted to go there before as the most famous ruins in Egypt are at Luxor, the remains of the old city of Thebes. I wish you could come there with me - we'd have the time of our lives as these Egyptian winters are delightful as regards weather.  However we  are so far away here & leave so limited that  it is useful to think about it.  otherwise I  might be advocating a trip to Egypt for Darby &  Joan.  At Assorian there is a famous dam  - one of the biggest pieces of engineering in the world & a week's leave would just give  me time to see both it & Luxor,  I believe 
it is to be decided today whether we go back  to the canal for a spell or not.  We have just  been out for a ride round part of the old  battlefield of 9th July last where the fight at  Bir-el-Abd took place & evidences of the  battle still remain - we counted over 30  dead horses lying in one area & shell  holes & shell fragments are lying about.  I had not seen this particular part before as  it was held by the 1st & 2nd Brigades  I'm afraid I'm getting fat again my dear,   now the cool weather has come again &  I am feeling very well.  I only hope you &  father are feeling the same & am anxiously  waiting the mail tomorrow to hear & hope  it will be good & the truth whole truth Etc.  Must close for lack of news with the best of love to all & a double share for  mother from Her loving son Wilf. 