Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 19 April 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


9th LH Regiment. 19.4.1916
My dear mother, Another mail arrived today containing two letters from you which I was very glad to receive but sorry that you did not seem too well or in too good spirits in your last (9.3.16). Really when one sees life as it is it makes him very disappointed - you who have spent the greater part of your life in helping others on & denying yourself ought according to what one would consider fair to be enjoying your later years in a suitable spot & with your children are within easy range & then by the force of circumstances you are compelled to drag on year after year in such an uncongenial spot as Candelo & far removed from all your children & to crown all your youngest is engaged in this world slaughter. It does seem hard, my dear, & I do wish that
I could alter matters or even be near you but at present such is prevented. However I grow hopeful that the war will not last so very long now - I should think another year would bring us within sight of the end & then home again - you must try & keep your health good to greet me home again. And then perhaps you may be able to settle down near me & the others & enjoy a little well earned content. I do feel sorry for you in that same little spot with the same dull unending monotony. I wish you would take a holiday & see someone in Sydney about that back of yours & then pay a visit all round to your bairns ending up in Lismore, it would be beautiful there in the winter or spring. You were asking about my work  - I'm afraid my dear it's very uninteresting at present as I only treat the men of this regiment & the variety of disease is not great. However I have a small a hospital here where I treat 
those who are moderately sick & if they become really ill send them on to the ambulance & from there to hospital. But medical work occupies only a very small part of my time & the  chief difficulty is to occupy it decently at all.   You will probably have read of a little expedition which this regiment made last week. Unfortunately I could not go as the Brigade arranged for a section of the Ambulance to go. It was a long ride some sixty miles over sand to a spot which had been located by our aeroplanes near the end of a Turkish road into the desert, where wells were being dug in order to provide water for a Turkish army on its way to Egypt - if it were foolish enough to attempt the task. The party found the spot without difficulty & prepared their attack carefully. The Turkish camp was in front of some low sandhills & our men formed up behind these & some of them advanced over the ridge but the main party swept round the lower end of the hills at full gallop & rushed on the camp. The Turks had been alarmed that morning by the fact that our aeroplane had gone over their camp twice, & during these visits of the flying machine always rushed away into the bushes to escape bombs which the aeroplane had a nasty habit of dropping. They were just returning from one of these alarms when their sentry on the hills caught sight of this body of men advancing on them at full gallop in a cloud of  dust & they took to their heels with right good will. Then their ensued a running fight & the fugitives were chased & compelled to surrender one by one. However about 15 of them were making for the head of the valley & a small number of our horseman rushed round & headed them off & after a rifle duel at about two hundred yards during which several Turks were 
shot they surrendered. What a  shock those Turks must have had when our boys dashed at them unexpectedly. They (the Turks) had two sets of apparatus wh for Artesian bores & had completed three bore holes of great depth & lined with concrete though they had found no water. Both the wells & the boring apparatus were destroyed & our men made off with their prisoners among whom was an Austrian engineer officer. Our casualties were quite insignificant. I believe we are not allowed to state them but the plural number could not be used of them. The Turks lost 6 killed & 6 wounded & about 33 prisoners were taken - quite a nice little stunt wasn't it my dear? Wesley & I spent last Sunday with some friends at an Ambulance some miles away & incidentally had a dip in some water which is near them - what that water is I leave you 
to guess. I do hope you keep that  pair of small ornaments for yourself I bought them specially for you - if there is any difficulty in regard to the rest I will send some more when I go to Cairo & I want to send  you some more as you are so keen on the brassware. Best of love to all the families from Your loving son, Wilf.

I hope you are keeping all my letters, Mum - they will be the only records of my trip that I will have