Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 17 July 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:



17. 7. 1916. My dear mother, Another mail has arrived & this time it was a beauty bringing me those two missing letters of yours, one from Em & Alice, Jack, Mrs  Job & Cedric largl written about the same date, & following these two more letters from you one from Wesly who is convalescing at Rase-el-Tin Hospital at Alexandria & one from another medico Parry & two Life's. I was delighted to find in your later letters that you were convalescent & feeling fit & do hope that you will continue so. The reason why that letter of mine went so quickly from Cairo was that I just caught a mail there & avoided the delays between here & Cairo. I was awfully upset to hear of that catastrophe at Sy Styles, the circumstances were exceptionally painful, poor O Reilley must have been in a dreadful state & as for the mother her condition can be better imagined than described Thankyou very much for your offers to send things to me, but my dear I would rather you were spending the money on yourself or I on you than 
you should be still spending cash on me. But I know you would be glad to send something & one of mother's cakes would be a welcome addition to our fare here. Also, my dear if you come across any Lucy Hinton tobacco in tins, a tin or two would be very welcome also as we can't buy it over here. Please thank Mab very much for the socks she sent, they are beautifully done & not nearly so thick as most which is a great. advantage in this climate. You didn't know who Jim Wiley was - he was in my year at Sydney & at hospital also, one of the best chaps you could meet. Please don't think of sending any money for those vases for you & the tray for Mab - I am only too delighted to be able to send you something & hope you will like them I thought the vases were very good - don't think I have seen any better, that is why I was so pleased to get them as you will have something always visible in the house to remind you of the sender. Mab 
will like the tray I think, it will be useful for visiting cards, so now all the four families will have some brassware in their little homes to remind them of Brother Bill over the water. We are  I varied the monotony this last week by going for a swim to the ___ with one of our squadrons which go down each day, leaving early in the morning & coming back at sunset. I enjoyed the day very much, first of all I called at the place where the hospital boat comes in & had a talk to one or two fellows I knew on board - one medico comes down in charge from Is__ each time & others come for the trip. Then I joined the rest of our party under some trees where we camped for the day We went in for a swim straight away & glorious it was too as the water is quite warm, no trace of chilliness at all & there we stayed for nearly an hour. Then had lunch & a smoke afterwards. While we were resting a P & O. liner from Australia or India passed along & of course 
we all rushed to the bank. A good many of the troopers were swimming their horses & one part of them were returning along the bank after swimming the animals. McFarlane who was in charge of this troop lined them up along the bank & they looked very well with their waving plumes & fine horses & their dress added a little picturesqueness as most had just singlets & trousers on. Those who were swimming (no bathing togs here of course) were given orders to remain under the water & along came the boat. She had a lot of passengers aboard principally women & it was nice to see white dresses again. Of course we all coo-eed & tins of cigarettes were thrown overboard, then you should have seen the blind rush of the lads on the horses. In they went clothes wrist watches pipes & everything, what cared they, the clothes soon dry here & soon the water was alive with bedraggled men racing
for the cigarettes. We must have looked funny to the people on the ship, the officers were wearing pjamas mainly for the sake of convenience & I had on a pair of bathing togs I had borrowed & a shirt over that to keep the sun from my shoulders while out of the water. Wesley is up & about now at Alexandria & I am going to try & go there to be with him for a few days - I am sure we would have a good time together. I had a letter a while a go from Elsie Evans, Gwen's sister, who is rather chummy with Ernest Hughes, telling me that Gwen had gone off to France somewhere near Boulogne - could not settle down in England again after being away. It is quite possible that I may go back to the 3rd L. H. F. Ambulance again shortly as the officer in command there asked me wo if I would care to do so if a vacancy occurred & I said 'yes' as I have not been with an Ambulance much & it would be a change. A vacancy has occurred this week so I quite expect to go in there soon. It is 2½ miles nearer  - (you know what I mean) & that is an advantage also, although I shall 
be sorry to leave the regiment for the officers are such a good lot. Still even in soldiering one might as well get as much experience as possible. Well goodbye my dear take care of yourself & keep well, best of love from Your loving son, Wilf