Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 2 August 1917
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


2.8.1917. My dear mother, I am afraid that owing to the frequent changes in my manner & place of living lately, my usual regular habits of letter writing have been somewhat upset & it is in the middle or rather nearing the end of the week again before I commence my home letter I am at present spending a few days with the Immobile Section of the 3rd Ambulance which is at present running a Rest Camp for the tired men of the Brigades on the beach. There they are well fed or rather have extra feed for the army ration is always a good one, have nothing to do save swim read & sleep, & they have a glorious time generally. The Red Cross Society in it's usual splendid way supplies books, extra food comforts, shirts pjamas, razors, chairs, tables, gramophones & records, piano & gives them all sorts of little things they need. I have been "out of a job" as it were since I came from Cairo as all arrangements were upset by what happened in connection with that, so I have been taking life very easily for a while. However I received a wire yesterday to the effect that I had been appointed D.A.D.M.S. (Deputy Assistant Director of Medical Services) in this Division & will take up duties there shortly. I was very glad 
to receive the appointment as it is the pick job for a man of my rank here giving one a good deal of status & I feel that is is a recognition that I have done my job work decently in the past. x It is also a satisfaction to me that when I came over here I didn't know a soul in the higher command, so that it is quite apart from a personal interest. I am having quite a varied experience & one which is constantly increasing in size as it were, first as M.O. to a regiment, the smallest unit, then in an Ambulance which deals with a Brigade of 3 Regiments, & now in Divisional Headquarters assisting in the direction of the medical work of a division consisting of 3 & sometimes 4 Brigades. To make it clearer to you I will draw a diagram.                
 ●I Division (commanded by Major General)                   I—————I——————I Brigade  ● I Brigade  ●I  Brigade  ●I                   I—I—I I—I—I I—I—I Regiment x x x   x x x   x x x  composed of 3 brigades each with its Ambulance Each Brigade with 3 regiments, & a medical officer attached to each
The Medical officer of a Regiment sees the sick men of his Regiment daily, treats them in the Regiment if only slight cases 
& sends them to the Ambulance if more severe. He has no transport for them, the Ambulance does that with it's Ambulance wagons Etc. The Ambulance keeps the sick men if it is thought the illness only of slight nature, otherwise it sends them back to a clearing station or stationary hospital from where they may go to the base. The Ambulance consists of a Colonel, Major, 4 Captains & about 120 men, so it is a fairly large show. Then the three Ambulances in a division & all the medical officers in regiments & other medical personnel are under the control of the A.D.M.S. of the Division who arranges their disposition Etc. He is assisted by a Deputy A.D.M.S or D.A.D.M.S. which is the job I am taking on, so now you will see where we are. Word has just come through so my batman has just told me that I have been " mentioned in dispatches" so everything is coming together isn't it my dear? Strange to say, young Willie Shaw has come to the 3rd Ambulance & is in this particular section. I get him in at night sometimes to have a talk when there are no other officers about as it is impossible to do so when the others are here, as military custom forbids it. That makes it very awkward when one has a relation in the same unit. 
& for that reason I am glad I will not be here at the same time, as you have no idea how awkward it is in military life, as officers cannot have very much to do with the men or discipline would fail. So I got Willie into my tent two or three times & we have had some long talks - he seems quite a good kid though rather of an average type. He is well off here & has come to quite a good home for the military business. I I will let him fight his own battles as the less one interferes the better, for there is nothing worse than showing favoritism  in a unit on account of relationship - I have had to do my own scrapping & think it is easily the best way. If I can assist  him in any other way, though, as I may possibly be able to do, I will certainly do so, but not to the extent of doing any special thing in a unit itself. For the same reason I’m glad dear old Jack is in a different unit, as complications always arise when in the same show. I had a letter from Jack yesterday, he told me that he had been drafted into the divisional ammunition column which is a jolly good job for him & I sincerely hope he is able to stick in it. Am anxiously waiting to hear from him again as he said that he expected to be coming out very soon. I think this long & windy screed is nearly  finished now, my dear, hope you are keeping well & in good spirits as yo I am & should be I think after getting  a good job & being mentioned in dispatches Much love to all & mother’s usual share from Her loving son Wilf.  Address now. Major W Evans D.A.D.M.S. Australian Mounted Division Egypt.