Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 20 November 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


20.11.1916 My dear mother Your two most welcome letters of 5th & 12th October arrived this week, also a parcel from Blanche Cavanough who had asked me to send her some Egyptian stamps & seemed so pleased when she received them that she sent off a parcel straight away. I was very sorry to hear that one of Dr Rennies sons had been killed & must write to him - he was at home when I went out to play tennis there & I remember Dr Rennie feeling anxious at the time as he knew his two sons were thinking of volunteering,  I was very glad to hear that Em & Alice were going to see you for their holidays after all, as I think their company would be beneficial if only you could have enough help at the time. I am very sorry that you are left without any doctor at Candelo & hope that you will take Dr. Mann's advice & look after yourself & if you are not well at all, write to Dr Rennie & explain to him. You mentioned Florrie Collins in your letter - have Walter or Ernest or any of the others come away? In looking at the list of the names in the Candelo 
Records you sent I failed to see any of the older Catholic families of the district mentioned. However please remember me to any of them when you see them. I suppose Pat Heffernan & the other boys are still shooting rabbits in the same way. It seems very strange that none of the Comans Collins or Heffernans have enlisted & they have a far bigger stake & interest in the country with their landed property than we have & it really isn't very pleasant for us to spend our years out here to help them along while they hang back in Candelo. However I suppose it's the way of the world. The billy has not arrived yet my dear, but as I have said before parcels are always somewhat belated & I can expect it any day. I wish I had sent along some trifle for Xmas for you but I had only just enough money left in Cairo to see me safely home last time so I hope you will forgive me this time. I'm sure you do miss my homecomings as you say & I equally wish I could be there, for time & the war drag on, and 
month after month goes by without the end seeming appreciably nearer. However keep up your heart & spirits mother & I will do my best to see you sometime next year if it isn't finished, although the military machine is such that it is a most difficult thing to do, much more difficult than you imagine. Still difficulties are only made to be overcome though we must always remember that every man will be needed the nearer we approach to the end & we must all do our best for the Empire at such critical times. Nothing very much has happened here since I last wrote, we are settled down quietly & comfortably in our tents & are able to purchase a few things at canteens here. This week however, I made a trip to Kantarah by rail to see Parry who is at present there with some details from the Ambulance to which he belongs. He came over with Wesley Graham & myself, you will remember. This camp was some distance from the station & by the time we had lunched it was time to 
return to the station to catch the train I had arranged for. Our horses were late arriving but we bagged a motorcar, only to be stopped at the canal as the bridges werent open on account of th boat traffic passing up & down so I missed my train. We then returned to Parry's Camp & I wired here that I would not be back till next day & spent the night with Parry. Strange to say another fellow from my old year - Machin turned up for dinner & we had quite a reunion. I spent the night on the floor of their mess tent, slept on some matting with a kit bag as pillow & a couple of blankets over me. Slept well also - such is soldiering. I often say that when I want to pay a visit to Sydney on my return I will ride in, hitch my horse to a tree in the Domain, spread my waterproof sheet on the ground & sleep under it a tree, shave with water from the fountain there 
& appear in George St fresh as paint, then return & cook my dinner in a mess tin & so on. It really is very handy as one can go & see any of his friends & give no trouble about beds or such things. I am looking after all the sick here now, only one officer in the Ambulance at a time has that job & I am glad to be doing it as you may imagine The three regiments from the Brigade send their cases here also the various details such as the battery of artillery who are Scotch, Signal troup, engineers & so on. Then we send them on to the base if they are very ill, otherwise treat them here.  We have a very large marquee as hospital & other tents for infectious cases. The orderlies are well trained & there are a couple of good Sergeant nurses also in charge. The Red Cross are very good & supply quite a lot of good things. We don't have very many very sick people - mostly minor ailments such as influenza, ingrown toenails, etc but occasionally have cases of tropical diseases we don't have in Australia Lunch is just ready & I have finished this writing pad so will leave the remainder till afterwards. 
Later. I fear that my thoughts have become deranged now as since I wrote this I rode over to the ocean about 6 miles away with Mr Pye the dentist here & had quite a pleasant afternoon. The ride is just as usual - sand everywhere but it was pleasant to actually be on a sea beach again & reminded me forcibly of walks in Sydney with Wal Corbett on Sunday afternoons. While there I met Van Epen once in my year & later at Lismore where Mab met him & Stafford also of my year. I am going to see them one day this week again. Have lost my writing mood now so will close with very best love to all from Your loving son Wilf. 