Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 9 January 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Heliopolis Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


No I Aust. Gen. Hospital, Heliopolis, 9.1.1916.  My dear mother, You will doubtless be very surprised to see the old address on the letter again unless you have heard before this by other means & strange to say I'm here as a patient though I can't describe myself as sick. I developed a slight influenzal attack the other day with a little temperature & asked one of the men in the ambulance to do my sick parade for me next day, which he did, & then sent me over here as he thought it much more comfortable. However I was almost well when I arrived here & have felt a perfect fraud ever since, which is only a period of two days, for I'm as fat as can be since going 
to Gallipoli, for the trousers I brought from Sydney will hardly button round my waist & everyone I meet here remarks how fat I became at Anzac. Wesley & Parry both did the same so we had a photo taken the other day which I wl will send along to you - it is cheap & nasty. About three days ago I paid my promised visit to Cousin John Evans at Wardan. I went by train from here at 1.40 p.m, skirting the banks of the Nile through beautiful irrigated land for the first part of the trip & then turning off into barren desert. The journey occupied about 1½ hours & I alighted at a typical "Gyppy" wayside station in the midst of a barren plain of fine sand with a strong breeze blowing the aforesaid sand into every available crevice, & caught sight of a British encampment a short distance away partly smothered in sand. There I directed my steps & after numerous enquiries succeed in finding the required tent & there was my cousin sor snoring away peacefully in a tent which was as tightly closed in as possible to keep out the sand. The poor beggar had lost all his kit & had practically nothing in the tent save a stretcher bed & he didn't look at all comfy. Strictly between you & me, British people can't look after themselves like the colonials, it was notorious at Gallipoli how little the British soldier knew of ordinary bush cooking or rigging himself up a decent shelter & so on - of course he has never had to do it at home. An Australian batman would have been ashamed to leave his masters' tent as poorly fitted up as my cousin's man had done. However we settled down to talk & he told me lots & lots of things about the family, wanted to know if you remembered the big bowl of lollies in father's shop which he used to feed on. He is such a jolly chap & good company, told me about Grandpa Evans at Bryngwran Farm, what a clever & witty old chap he was & how he used to drink. His wife whose maiden name was Anwy l was one of the Welsh royal line, as his sister had told me previously - very humorous. One of father's sisters or rather his only one married a clergyman named Davies who has a good living at Carnavon or Clanarvon or some such place where he himself lived. Then there is still a brother in Liverpool I think he said & one at Bryngwran Farm. He told me about his brother's committing suicide, which I remember reading about some years ago since when both his father & mother have died. He says that his own father was very severe & partly attributes his brother's death to that. I had afternoon tea with him & then went to catch my train, under his escort to the station as it was dark, & the train being very late I did not arrive in Cairo until about 9 pm. 
I had grown hungry by this time so I went & I had some refreshment of a light kind. Then I was going to the tram to come home when I was tapped on the shoulder by one of the younger generation from Prince Alfred who had come over recently & he persuaded me to help him escort two of the nurses back to Ghezireh Hospital whom he had with him at the time. When we arrived there we met more people we knew amg among them Buchanan who was in my year & Morgan who was in the following year. Buchanan had a motorbike & side car with him & said he was coming to Heliopolis & would drive me here. However before leaving Ghezireh Hospital we sighted a fire & must needs 
go there at full speed on the motor bike. It proved to be in one of the river boats owned by Cooks which is used for passenger traffic to Luxor. There was another large boat tied to it's outer side & quite a large number of others tied along the wharves close to it but lower down & a strong wind was blowing the flames down on them The fire brigade was very slow in commencing work but eventually managed to get some hoses going after much gesticulating & talking among the niggers who ran the show. By this time about 10 or 15 khaki-clad men had appeared on the scene in addition to ourselves & our offer of help which was at first refused was eventually accepted & we got a small boat & rowed out to the boat which was tied up on the outside of the burning vessel & freed her & tried to push her off. However she caught fire before we could get her well away & we beat a hasty retreat when the decks began to get hot. Then we rowed downstream & freed several other boats & with the aid of the tide got them fairly well out of danger. It was late by this time so Buchanan & I after first taken Morgan home on the bike went off to Heliopolis at great speed & it is then I think I developed my influenza as I had not carried a coat to Wardan thinking I would be home early, & the night air here as you know is chilly. The next night I had promised to go into dinner with Buchanan & his mother & sister though I was not keen on it, but he would have been offended if I did not go. Dinner at the abominable hour of 8 p.m. at the boarding house where they stay in Cairo kept by two scotch ladies - not a bad spread.  Afterwards went to the picture show - my own inclinations would have been for a good spee sleep but could hardly excuse myself. Then supper at Saults in Cairo & home at 12.30. Very tired. Mrs Buchanan I met before once or twice when I dined with them in Sydney at Dulwich Hill one of the straight-laced variety, does not attract me greatly.  Daughter not half bad, very closely watched by mother - just as well in Cairo. Buchanan wanted to entice me into the trip to Luxor with himself & people - but "not in these trousers" (in vulgar parlance) - I would like to go to Luxor but prefer to have a free hand. It is a town right away down in the centre of Egypt are on the Nile & is very interesting is reached by the railway Kitchener built to Omdurman & is interesting historically 
& on account of dams & dead cities in which it abounds. Must try & get a week end off & go there if I can as it is necessary to complete one's Egyptian visiting. Well my dear I hope you will not worry about me being in hospital, I hope to be out tomorrow or the next day & if you could only see my fat condition you would not worry a bit. Will write  to all the members of the family when I can manage it, please all of you young members of the flock bear  with me, it's the very deuce writing over the same stuff which is herein contained although I love to receive your letters but now that I  feel myself again & hope to
have a little spare time I shall try &  write individually Best of love to all the family from Your loving son (& brother, Wilf. With mother's extra share without which I know she would be grieved.