Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 17 June 1915
Location: S S Karoola
Nationality: Australian

Text:

June  17th  On board Karoola  Pass it on to Jack please, In haste love Delice
 
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN  LINE.  "T.S.S. KAROOLA,"  My dear mother & all the Evans Thomas  family,  I hope you will pardon  my more than usually vile writing  but the ship is kicking about with  such vigor that I have much trouble  in remaining firm on my seat. We  have been busy today censoring  the men's letters & I am bound not  to tell you the date where we are  or at what port this will be posted  but with a little thought you will  easily be able to reckon it out &  I will send you a wire if I  possibly can at the above unmentioned  place. After writing my last letter  we arrived off Port Philip but we   only saw it's entrance & the pilot
boat came out to take our sick  men off. It was about 8 a.m & a   beautiful morning, sea quite calm,  so we lowered a small boat to  take the sick man over to the  pilot boat a short distance away  & I went over in it to take charge  of the sick man on the trip. I  was hoping to go right in to  Queenscliffe on the pilot but my  orders were to return immediately  so I did not even bag a  newspaper for which were  were & still are famishing.  The Germans may be in Petrogad  or Paris now for all we know  to the contrary for though we  have wireless we will not  pick up messages of that kind  until we get well into the Indian  Ocean. Since I wrote you last  the sea has become a great  deal more choppy with the
result that a great many  were seasick but I have  been well up to the present though  yesterday I had a headache.  We have very little - too little  to do on board & spend a   good deal of time reading &  chatting. We had chapel on  Sunday conducted by Mr. Paterson  & there was a large attendance.  It was very funny to watch  the men when the boat gave  a lurch rolling over into the  scuppers & falling over each  other, the officers had seats in  front & some of the men who  were standing behind would  grasp their seats for support  with the result that the  whole thing would move  bodily along the deck.  The chaplain was looking rather unhappy, & his face presented a greyish tinge & an anxious expression like a kitten drowning in a bucket of water, but he went through the service courageously if somewhat prosily. He is however a very nice old chap. We also have Mr Diggs la Touche on board. I think I have mentioned him before as being a Church of England clergyman who is a lieutenant in the fighting ranks & he is assisting the chaplain in his services. Several men in the ranks are also divinity students or clergymen & one of them who is a sargeant is conducting a service. The food on board is excellent there is plenty of fruit & several courses for each meal as, soup entreēs meat poultry pudding & dessert. Today I have for once been busy as I am on duty for four days as medical officer to the sick parades twice daily when all men who wish to see a doctor or need opening medicine are brought forward. I had about 80 men this morning & 30 this afternoon but two medical officers are allotted daily. Then we have been busily engaged in censoring letters, you can imagine how many letters are written by the men & it is a very wearisome job. However there is a humorous side to it as many of the remarks made by the men cause outbursts of laughter. I must warn you that after this letter you will probably not receive one for some little time as opportunity will not probably present itself for posting letters & then it will take some time for the letter to reach you but if I have he opportunity I will always send you a wire or cable. so that you may possibly receive one at no great period after this but it is hard to say as no one knows how long our trip is expected to take & if we did know I could not tell you so please do not be too anxious if you are kept waiting for some time after the receipt of this letter. As regards my photographs my dear I think it will be necessary to get a 2nd dozen as I promised a good many to different people & several nurses at the hospital among them. So if you would write to Cruders & ask them to send an extra dozen you could pay for them from the money which is to be paid to you. By the way I wrote to Mr. Bloomfield & asked him to open an account for me as I afterwards thought it would be better & he should shortly receive £15 - £20 from Liverpool as we were not paid before leaving & I asked Captain Schlink who was in command of the AMC there to collect it & send it on to the Commercial Bank at Candelo. Please let me know about it & whether they are sending along my pay as the should - 12/6 daily. I closed my Savings Bank account & bought away about £20 in gold with. me in case of emergencies. I'm very grieved that I can't find anyone here to whom I could temporarily lose my heart in order to help pass time. We have been passing time for the most part quietly, reading talking playing cards & so on, & on the whole it has gone rather quickly up to the present. I have missed your letters a good deal as it is impossible for me to receive any before we reach Egypt as none of the mail boats will perform the journey quicker than we if all goes well. I will leave the remainder of the letter to finish nearer port my dear. Wilf.