Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 31 March 1917
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


31.3.1917 My dear mother, Events have for some time past been so mixed up that I hardly know when I last wrote to you but fancy it is only about a week ago, though the last week has seemed ages as we have had rather a  rough time. I think I last wrote when we were going or had just gone on a reconnaissance in force out into Palestine & had seen the old city of Gaza in the distance. Well a day or two afterwards we moved but again  bivouaced in the open that night & next morning there was quite a large sized battle. Our particular Brigade was not heavily engaged though it had an exciting time  in the evening. We had been sent right round to the rear of the enemy's position to keep reinforcements from coming up to attack our troops in rear when they were fighting the enemy in Gaza. During most of the day we sat about & watched the Infantry advancing in the open but towards evening received word that strong enemy forces were advancing on the rear & our Brigade set out to repel them. I was left behind with a section of the Ambulance with the reserve
Regiment so didn’t see much of it. In the evening after dusk however we received orders to withdraw & it was a very awkward position I can better describe by drawing  We were right round near the  sea, shown & we could  only return by a comparatively  narrow track to our own people  & this was menaced by the enemy  forces coming up on the rear & flank. The Regiment to which my section of the Ambulance was temporarily attached got away from me in the darkness & I decided to come straight back & managed to come along without much trouble, arriving somewhere about 3.30 am in our camp. The other part of the Ambulance & the Brigade had orders to remain most of the night & commenced to return in the early hours of the morning. The Ambulance the other section of it under the Colonel & another officer had been sent on ahead & had gone too far South as the way   shown by the arrow & when dawn broke found numerous enemy people about 100  yards away & they bolted for their lives & the Turks  seemed so surprised they didn't worry them  at all & our troops engaged them until they  were clear. Other exciting escapes were recorded  - one officer was missing & turned up a couple  of days later after wandering about among  the Turkish lines - once his groom shot  a couple of Turks who were making for them.  We had one chap in the Ambulance who was  taken prisoner & escaped & was rescued by one  of our patrols in the last stage of exhaustion  from lack of water.  The day following the battle we spent in the open  & it was terribly hot & we suffered a good deal  from thirst & again on the following day, but  are now fairly well settled again & comfortable.  One day when we were hot dry & thirsty & feeling  very grubby from lack of washing we came  near the sea & the whole Brigade horses & men  included went into it en masse & fairly  wallowed in it. We are rather cut off from  news just at present but hear all sorts of  rumors about big advances in France &  more in Mesopotamia, will commence to get our news regularly again in a day or two I suppose. Our horses have had many a luscious feed in the crops of Southern Palestine lately, some of the barley is splendid just at present. There are no fences but in some places they have mud walls with huge cactus bushes growing on top which afford a very strong barrier. But as a rule there are no fences at all. The mountains of Judaea & Hebron are  fairly distinct in the distance so we  are becoming quite Biblical. Hope to receive our mail today with lots of love to all & a double  share for mother from  Her loving son,  Wilf. 