Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 8 October 1917
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:



8.10.1917. My dear mother, The silence has broken at last & two letters arrived one dated July 12th & the other August 10th. No other letters & no parcels not even the billy have arrived but I expect they will all come along in time as our mail service has gone to the dogs since the P & O. altered their route You asked about Myrt Connel - I forget when I last saw him, but think it was when I was in Cairo last & Myrt had been in hospital I don't think she has any cause to worry at all, but mails are  so erratic now that we must all be content to go for long 
periods without news. You asked about my health, my dear, well I'm getting fatter every day, it's hard work to keep my appetite down & at present we are living very well indeed. My only anxiety is for fear that I may become too portly which would be a shame wouldn't it? Glad to hear that you are thinking of Parsley Bay - to my mind it seems quite the  best place of all, so fresh but yet so central - but you would want more than one allotment of ground I should think. If you I have not seen Jack again this last week & think it unlikely that I will see him for some little time as it is difficult to go across to where he is at present. Today is one of those days which you so detested in Cooma, a strong wind is blowing & the dust which as I have told you lies inched deep everywhere is simply pouring in through every opening in the tent & some of it will doubtless be enclosed in this letter to you. I had a letter from Wesley a day or two ago - he is now at No 1 Australian General Hospital in France - that was the hospital I first joined in Cairo. He is anxious to join a Field Ambulance but has not been able to do so yet - it must be a rather unhealthy life in a Field Amb. in France I should think. We have had some lively air fighting over here lately & the day before yesterday, one of our men bought down a German in our lines. It was rather bad luck for the German as he had only three shots through his plane  & very often they have a dozen or two without having to come down but one of the shots hit his water tank in the engine & he had to descend on our lines. Our man followed him down & had
 a chat with him before he was taken away by our patrols. The machine was brought in intact on an Army limber. Of course the flying people are very bucked about it & very pleased with themselves indeed We have had a quiet time since I last wrote, very little doing at all, not even a reconnaissance However, we have all been better pleased as reconnaissances are often very unpleasant. I have just returned from examining a Turkish prisoner who was brought in today. He is very ill, poor beggar, has very severe Bronchitis & possibly pneumonia & has been wandering about practically without food for a couple of days. He says they are very poorly fed, though he seemed quite well nourished enough. All the Turks or most of them are big, well made fellows & this chap was quite good - looking & their uniform when new must be quite smart being greyish or grey blue in colour with red facing round the collar which quite sets it off. I sent the poor beggar off in a Motor Ambulance. Prisoners keep coming in, by one or two, almost every day one passes through this Divisional Headquarters -I think a lot of them get very fed up & then do a bolt into our lines when they get a chance. No more news my dear, hope you are all very well & in good spirits, with very best of love to all & an extra bit for mother from Her loving son Wilf.