Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 4 January 1917
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:

4.1.1917. My dear mother, Since I last wrote you we have had a mail & I received one letter from you in it & today another registered one & also a nice little parcel of chocolates & other little items. The socks also arrived a few days ago & were a very nice fine pair too -  I have them on at present, Mabs socks also arrived so I am quite well off in that line now. I also received the Life & Windsor from Candelo & three Sydney Mails from Ern & some other letters so I fared very well indeed this time especially as a nice little parcel from Ern & Alice arrived only a few days ago. It contained chocs & biscuits, the former soon disappeared & I kept the latter for a few days as the others here had received some cake & we had that for afternoon tea for a few days till it was finished Then one day we moved camp & missed our proper lunch & it was cold wet & miserable & the cooks managed to get a cup of tea about 4 oclock &  x I came along & found the others sitting round with four cups of tea & nothing good to eat with them looking very disconsolate & when I dived into a bag & produced the biscuits there was a general roar of approval. We have only a small mess here - four officers consisting of Colonel Frazer Major White Captain Bassett & myself & we have been joined lately by a Veterinary officer Captain Worthington who would otherwise be on his lonesome. Some one or another of the party generally has something on hand to help matters along. I told you, did I not that we were so busy on Xmas day that we dined from bully & biscuits although we had sent all the way to Port Said to get turkeys. Well we were busy for some days after that but one day we slaughtered one of them & our cook did his best & we had our Xmas dinner on Jan 2nd we had intended it for New Years Day but our move spoilt it. He was a beauty & we had plum pudding (tinned) & some jelly with tinned fruit in it, followed by almonds & raisins so we just did have a spread. It was a bitterly cold day & raining most of the time so our appetites were sharp & we did full justice to it. We have had most remarkable weather lately, cold & rainy, we must have had several inches this week 
& for some reason or other we were moved some days ago from out sheltered palm grove, some miles away into a bare open bleak plain. Most of the poor fellows had no shelter save what they could make from waterproof sheets & blankets, & though most of them are very good at making shelters they must have suffered considerably. We had by this time evacuated all our wounded & had very few sick with us so were able to make use of one of the six tents we always carry with us & so were on clover. However today the weather has improved & we are back again in our palm grove by the sea. Last Sunday we had church parade on the ocean beach, quite picturesque it was to see the hollow square of men drawn up on the sands with the breaking spray in the background & the padrē in his robes. I felt awfully sad however as I looked at one of the regiments & missed two faces of officers who had fallen in the last fight, such good fellows too, one had been a Rhodes Scholar & was a barrister by profession in Melbourne -Higgins by name (I think a son of the Judge). When I was picking up wounded just after the fight I came on a sorrowful group with his body in the midst - he had just been killed at the end & I picked him up hoping to bring the body right in here but soon found that I had too many wounded to carry the dead so he had to be buried there & they are making a fine cross to be placed on it presently though it is so far away. I am glad you have maps of this country you will be able to see our exact position. You remember the long trip we went to El Maza once - I did not mention the name but we had a brush with the Turks there. At that time we were on the canal side of Bir el Abd. Then where we were camped before coming on to El Arish was near Maza so you can see our gradual advance. I am very glad indeed to hear that your health is improving & wish I could come along to take you out for a run occasionally. Aunty Lily's preserved fruit was apparently addressed x wrongly & a letter posted to the same place eventually arrived but not the parcel. You were asking about washing - my batman does that for me always & is quite a good hand at it. You would laugh at the way we wash ourselves - when we rise in the morning we have a horse - bucket of water brought from a well if there is one handy spread out an oil sheet or sack on the ground & with the aid of a sponge & soap manage to sluice ourselves all over It is rather chilly in the open & the wind whistles round a little but we are quite used to it now. The sea has been very rough ever since we arrived but we quite enjoy it's roar when we are well & truly wrapped up in our blankets at night. I have seen one or two accounts in the papers of the Battle of Magdaba since I last wrote but very poor ones they were & they don't mention very much the work of this particular Brigade which in this case did the bulk of the work, but that is generally the way in the accounts of battles In August last at Romani, one would think that the Infantry & Yeomanry had done wonders whereas they hardly saw a Turk except in the distance & the Anzac Division did almost all the fighting & in the decorations  later the Infantry got about five or six honors to xxx the Anzac Division. (I censored this myself to save the official censor the trouble) I sent along to you a Turkish ground flag this week with the hospital red crescent for on it. There were several of these scattered on the ground about the hospital at Magdaba 
& I picked this one up. It will be a good trophy in the future. Hoping you are keeping well & in good spirits. Love to all with mother's extra lot from Your loving son Wilf.
