
Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 24 January 1918
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:

Sent to Harry.  24.1.1918  My dear mother, I have just sent off to you a  registered packet of photos which I hope you will receive safely. I went through my papers & collected all the oddments which had been lodging there for some time past & just prior to sending these away the photos I had taken of the recent Palestine operations came along & I sent them also. They are really quite a good interesting lot & I was very pleased with them & hope you like them also. We are now living much the same life as we did at this time last year when resting back at El Arish, only we are farther North & it is a little colder. The men are training & sports are the order of the day, each different unit is trying to  arrange something to try & amuse & entertain
the men. Sickness is now very slight -it always is in winter & the men are all in very good fettle. We have had rather a busy week de-lousing them, as during operations it was impossible for men to wash themselves or their clothes much & they accumulated horrible numbers of lice & we eventually secured the disinfecting train for our Division. This consists of an ordinary engine with two ^closed trucks attached, fitted with iron doors & steam pipes & the clothes are stacked inside this on racks provided for the purpose, the doors closed & steam turned on. Steam of course destroys all leather articles so breeches with leather facings cannot thus be treated. While their clothes are being steamed the men go about in their overcoats & boots & those with leather faced trousers iron them with hot irons provided for the purpose or else expose the inner sides to a steam jet which proves fairly effective. After ¾ hour they  get their clothes back & their overcoats are  then done. It took us three days to do the  Division & we have just finished. I never saw men worse afflicted with lice than they were this time & the eggs were sometimes in solid masses. Otherwise I have been continuing my Sanitary inspections stirring up one or another so as to get them into good trim. We generally have a game of cards in the evening so that time passes fairly pleasantly save that I wish one could  be going on with medicine instead of rather stagnating. I wonder how you are  progressing now & whether you have yet found a suitable place to live in, suppose you are still house hunting. Several fellows have gone off to England on leave from here this week whose homes are in England - Musker, Cavanagh, Ford Young  & Col Preston, so I think they will have an adventurous time as submarines still seem to be present in the Meditteranean. One of our medicos in charge of a Sanitary Section went home to get married & was torpedoed on the return trip but fortunately reached land minus his baggage. News very scarce my dear so will close, hoping the photos reach you safely with best of love to all & a hug for mother from Her loving son,  Wilf. Some distance away from Jack just at present so haven't seen him for sometime.  