
Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 5 April 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Camp Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


NATIONAL HOTEL P. HERGEL Prop. CAIRO, April 5th 1916.  My dear mother, Just a few lines to tell you that I am on leave for three days at present & am spending them in this city. Wesley was unable to get off at the same time so I had to come up by myself.  However I found one of the medicos from our ambulance at the station & we came here together & he persuaded me to stay at this hotel though I originally intended to go to the Continental.  It is quite a good place to stay
at, not quite as large as Shepheards or the Continental & better for that reason. The chaplain or padrė from our Brigade is here also & one or two other men I know. Unfortunately most of the fellows I know are not in Cairo at present & I miss them very much, find it quite dead. Yesterday morning I did quite a lot of shopping mostly for other people as I was loaded with commissions. In the afternoon I betook myself to one of the Auxiliary Hospitals & met a couple of fellows I knew, then to No iii Australian General (not No I where I used to be) & saw  
some more people & in the process had two afternoon teas . Then I came back here for dinner & afterwards went to the Davies Bryans to make a call. Found them all at home & cordial as usual, they told me that Gwen Evans had returned to England but that her brother John Evans was still with his ambulance in Egypt. Mrs Bryan wishes to return to England herself before the summer sets in & Mr Bryan also would like to go if he could leave the business though he is shorthanded at present, but they are a little scared of submarines & have not quite 
determined what to do. This morning my brother medico & myself paid a visit to the citadel & the fine mosque there then returned to do more shopping, met two nurses he knew & had morning tea with them & then he went off on a flying trip to Alexandria. But l must close hurriedly my dear as Jim Wiley has just arrived & he is dining with me here so goodbye with lots of  love from, Wilf.