Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 19 June 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


19.6.1916.  My dear mother,   We have had another mail this  week but I had no luck but have not given  up hope yet as sometimes New South Wales mail  comes a little later than the South Australian as  this regiment is composed chiefly of men from there.  Our boys returned safely from their little  stunt in the desert without seeing any of  the enemy, though they rounded up about  80 Bedouins men women & children while there.  It surprised me very much at first to  find that there was any population at  all in this desert, but yet our boys saw  some very fine fat sheep & goats away  out in the sandy wastes & indeed bought  a sheep for 8/- or 10/- & enjoyed it too.  The Bedouins are apparently nomads  living in caves & holes in the ground,  & their flocks graze on a peculiar desert  grass which is scattered in tufts at  intervals over all the desert, though it  is marvellous how it manages to grow  in such a place. Water is of course very  scarce, although you may remember that 
I told you once before when our regiment was   returning from it's last expedition that there  had been a thunderstorm in the hills & a large  volume of water had come rushing down the  "wady" or dry watercourse. This still remained  in pools along the wady in spite of the great  evaporation here & the remarkable fact is that  it did not soak away through the sand.  But in that part of the desert the character  of the soil is a kind of clay with apparently  a good deal of lime in it which helps causes  it to form a hard crust at the bottom of  the pools which contains the water. The  purpose of the expedition was to break up this  crust & cause the water to drain away & also to  empty wells which existed farther away so as  to prevent the Turks from getting water supplies  there if they wished to attack us. I mentioned once  before a very large well which was supposed to  have been dug by the Crusaders & contained  a great deal of water. This also was emptied  by means of pumps. Se So I suppose the  Bedouins will now have to seek fresh fields  & pastures new. It is interesting to note  that the character of the desert changes  as one goes North towards the Meditteranean 
perhaps the best way to give you an idea  where I mean would be to say about  20 or 30 miles out from Port Said. I am  told that there, numerous palm trees  & wells are scattered over the country, grass  is more abundant & Bedouins more a  plentiful, also the Turks are closer.  Wesley & I had a pleasant little trip this  week to that water I have mentioned before  leaving here about 3 pm & taking tea with  us. We had our swim & then our grooms  made a fire & boiled some tea in mess tins  (not billies) & we had sardines, followed  by tinned sausages & then tinned pineapple.  So we had quite a decent spread even in  this inhospitable land. We came back  in the moonlight & that is one thing I  will say for this country, the moonlight  nights are glorious. The light is much  more powerful than in Australia & the  desert quickly cools after the scorching  heat of the sun under the influence  of a cool Northerly breeze from the  Mediterranean, so that it is delightful  riding at such a time. We had  Church parade on Sunday about a   mile from here & we all rode over to it forming quite an impressive spectacle.  The rest of the week has just gone in  the usual monotonous way. I often  wish like you that the war would hurry  up & finish as I would like to go back  & see you again & the continual  waste of one's time is rather distressing  Still we must continue with the war  until Germany has had a thorough  whipping & then home again with a  vengeance. Best of love to  all the family not forgetting mother from  Your loving son,  Wilf.