Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 5 June 1918
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


5.6.1918.  My dear mother, I am a few days late again in replying to your letters as it has been a busy week again & it has been very difficult to find any time to write. Three letters of yours arrived recently 22nd & 29th  of March & 5th of April. Needless to say I am delighted to hear that you are so pleased with your house buying & hope that Jack & I will attend at the house-warming a little later. My batman Smith has obtained leave to Australia & as he will probably arrive in Sydney I have given him directions to call & see you & tell you just how he left me, though I think he will be rather bashful, He is a good honest boy & a hard worker & has certainly done me well during the time I have had him. You asked in one of your letters 
my  dear, what to send me. I think just a letter or two ago I said quite a long rigmarole about it & my dear I just want to repeat it now - please don't spend anything on me at all, I can purchase in Egypt practically all I require. I was completely out of  tooth powder & wanted a pair of  dust & sun goggles a week or two ago & wrote to a fellow in the base hospital at Port Said enclosing  some money & he forwarded me what I required in the course of three or four days so that you see it is quite an easy matter.  But please don't think I don't appreciate your offer. You mentioned leave in your letter - well to tell the honest truth I lay on my bed this afternoon before writing this letter & was just  contemplating the question - I might possibly be able to 
manage "transport duty” after a time if I applied, but somehow or another there is a feeling of reluctance to apply as I feel sure that if I my application were successful & I reached Australia it would be very hard to come away again & I should be very tempted to try & stay.  Certainly I have done three years solid work here now & I do long to go home again but nevertheless there is a feeling that one doesn't want to chuck it up. However I really believe that some of these days I will have a shot at it though my application might not be successful if I did. Sufficient "reason'' is the trouble. The heat in the Jordan valley is not nearly as bad as anticipated so far, but of course one never knows what it may be later on - certainly up to the present it hasn't been so bad - 110° being the hottest day. And in addition we are sure to be relieved & have a rest on the high ground somewhere, before the end of the summer. I am still very well indeed & maintain my  appetite in a remarkable fashion - I don't know what to do about it, possibly you can recommend something. During the week I have been busy again warring against mosquitos & have  located several spots where they were breeding badly. In one place we have  done extensive work - 1000 men employed in draining swamps & clearing away weeds etc our chief trouble is the large swamp in front of our  lines where we can do nothing, & mosquitos from it attack the men in the front line posts. Then we found another bad place in our lines where a large pool about 300 by 30 yards & five feet deep had been left behind by the overflow from the Jordan & it is a terribly difficult place to deal with. The Commander in Chief - General Allenby came out to look at the work a day or two ago so we had quite a distinguished party to view it. He looked at the work we had done & seemed pleased with it, but the trouble was we wanted him to see some of the mosquito larvae so as to impress or him how bad they were - but we couldn't raise one anywhere as we had treated that part of the country & where there had previously been millions not one could be seen. He is a great bustler, wastes no time, hit walks everywhere at a tremendous rate. He is in figure very large indeed well over six feet high & head in proportion & has a most determined & certainly capable face. Finish now my dear lots of love to everyone & an extra hug for mother. from Her loving (if at present sticky) son Wilf.