Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 13 June 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


13. 6. 16  My dear mother,  Since I last wrote you we had an Australian  mail or rather I believe it was just before I wrote &  I somehow think I forgot to mention it in telling  you about Cairo. I had two letters from you  one from Linda & one from Mab, a Sydney  Mail from Ern & Herald from Harry. I was sorry  that you had not received letters from me & sincerely  hope that the rumor was untrue that you our letters  would be stopped for 2 months. We heard the  same thing here but I discredited it & continued  writing. It was of course during the movement  of our Infantry to France & I thought that  they might try & prevent all news of the  movement from filtering out as we all  knew quite well here & you appeared to be in  complete ignorance in Australia. Was sorry to  hear that the house at Cooma was not tenanted  & hope that some wise person has seen fit  to occupy it since then. We are again leading  our life of monotony which is worse than usual  at present as a good part of the regiment  is away on a "stunt" & I was not taken again  worse luck, but Wesley has had the luck to go 
this time with part of his regiment & part of mine.  We saw the first Turkish aeroplane xx that  has appeared since our arrival here - today  We heard a buzzing as we were going to  breakfast & I looked up & saw a machine  of an unusual type passing overhead & soon  afterwards someone saw with the aid of  glasses the hostile sign painted underneath  the plane. She passed however without  attempting to molest us though she had  previously dropped some bombs near the  camp where Wesley usually is but her  aim was very bad & no damage was  done.  I went to dinner last night with  the officers of the 11th who were at one  time with us & spent a pleasant evening  afterwards playing bridge & talking. We  have a phonograph here now & it helps to  while away some of the dull hours rather  pleasantly & we have just completed a new  fly proof mess shed of rather a swanky  type, made of matting with matting roof built  thus so as to allow air ventilation  at the top. No provision  need ever be made for rain here. The windows  are covered with mosquito netting & have 
sliding panels to cover them in case of a  dust storm. It is a pretty building rather,  I must take a snap of it some day  & send it along. I brought back some  of Stevenson's books this time & have just  finished them, they rather remind me of  the tales I read long ago in Cooma in  the big old arm chair in the dining room.  I can often picture you, now in the winter  sitting by the fire in the dining room playing  draughts sewing & reading just as you did  when I had my last trip home in the  winter. Well! well! I hope to make another  in one of those parties again fairly  shortly, the Russians are making  a good big rush again & I begin  to see visions of home sweet home  again & my! won't we have a time  No more desert for me then thankyou, I'll  I think I'll be inclined to eat grass  like a cow after this I'll love it so  much, so you can think out some  recipes for grass for my return  my dear. I'm afraid that's all  the news & foolery I have for you  this time so will close this ugly scrawl
with the best of love to all & a little  extra bit for mother from  her loving son,  Wilf.     One of the photos I'm sending is a pontoon  bridge over a certain stretch of water  which is nameless.