Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 19 January 1918
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:

19.1.1918. My dear mother, Your letter dated 27/11/1917 arrived a few days ago, after one dated Dec 5th. but both quite  recent - apparently our mails are running direct  again. Very strange that a form of commission  should arrive from the War Office at this stage & I  wonder how it happened possibly owing to staff  appointment. You thought I might be enjoying  myself in England by this time - far from it, my  dear, though I understand it is much easier  to obtain leave there than to Australia, strange to  say. But though I should very much like to go  the trouble is that it might stand in one's way  of going to Australia at all later on, so I am  not attempting it. In any case I believe,  good & sufficient reasons, apart from length  of service, & supported by documentary evidence 
must be given to go to either place. I feel quite distressed about your possible troubles in settling on a home & wish I could give you help or advice, but it is so difficult here to do so. Building is doubtless very expensive just now & it rather makes one wonder if a place could not be bought or rented more advantageously just at present particularly as you do not wish to settle yourself down absolutely just yet. Don't for goodness sake though settle in a crowded suburb or you will stifle. I have had rather a busy week this time, as it has been necessary to ride round a good deal & stir people up about their sanitation owing to our settling down for a period in a standing camp. Also water has had to be watched closely & I had to condemn one place altogether from which they were obtaining drinking water & which on examination proved to be absolutely unfit. Today we have been to a  sports meeting held by one of the Brigades which reminded me rather of the old "shows" at home, as it consisted mainly of jumping & events of a similar kind, though of course adapted to military conditions. For instance it wasn't the best turned out buggy, but the best turned out limber, & so on. The 10 best horses which had been out since mobilization, also, was a good item & there were some beauties probably the pick of the English stables. One amusing item was the best turned out camel, in one case with ridden by a white man & in another a cacolet for wounded led by a native Egyptian as they always are. And it was a proud Egyptian with whom the Corps Commander shook hands as he did with all the winners of the other competitions. Memorial church service to be held tomorrow & everybody is to attend & in addition the Corps Commander will be present. No more news this time, mother mine, there never is much when in a standing camp Am enclosing a note for Candelo Knitting Society just to buck them up a bit though all my stuff was knitted by you. With very best of love to all & mother's usual share from Her loving son Wilf. I really am getting horribly fat 

Send these to Ern please - as usual -   All well Ern  Hope you and yours  are. Leah here.  Love H. It was my pal Jack referred to


This came  after the one you  had - dated 24th Jan Send all  these to  Ern please & he can  post to Mab
