Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 28 July 1918
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: France
Nationality: Australian

Text:


28.7.1918.
My dear mother,
Two welcome letters from you arrived today dated May 27th & June 1st I was very grieved indeed to hear that you had not received letters from me recently this being due to your change in address as some would be addressed to Candelo, some to that place at Vaucleuse where you were for a while & some to North Sydney, so no wonder they have gone astray. I only hope that my letter about our stunt to El Salt reached you as it was a very interesting little operation up there & I should be sorry if that letter went astray as it was a fairly long one. I am also rather sorry my dear, to note between the lines that you are a wee bit lonely & not too well & that confirms me in my intention of applying for transport duty on those grounds. I have been trying to make up my mind to do it for a long while but can never quite decide to give up the business out here, much as I hate it & have hated it. But, when we have finished our turn in this valley for in a couple of weeks time I will do so, though at present the supply of medical officers out here is on the short side. But I know what a joy it would be for you to see me again (to say nothing of myself!!) so I'll have to make a shot at it, though it may take some little time after I apply. Please don't worry about sending parcels, my dear, they are only extra expense to you now & you can ill afford it under present conditions so please dont worry about it at all as we can get most things in canteens.  I think in my last letter I mentioned to you my trip to Hebron from Bethlehem & on coming down to the Jordon valley again. Although it's very hot I don't mind it a bit this time, I think my trip away bucked me up no end & I'm as fit as can be. Last week didn't seem very hot but the average for the days of the week was 105° so you can see it was fairly warm & it didn't come down below 70° at night. Yesterday was fairly hot 114°, but we get used to it & I didn't feel it a scrap - we were out all afternoon chasing mosquitos, as we say, or to be exact looking for their hiding places so as to exterminate them. We found a new place out beyond our barbed wire where out patrols go out to & get very much bitten at night, & we discovered the source of the breeding & can remedy it quite readily. We went out by motor car part of the way and the rest of it we rode.  The previous day we went up the Wadi Mellabah where we did so much work last time & found it very satisfactory on the whole. Things are very quiet just at present, since the Turks were so badly biffed when they attacked recently, & there is only occasional shelling nowadays & an occasional hostile aeroplane comes over & has a look at us. Col Dixon's boat got away so sharp to time that the letter I wrote him giving him your address didn't catch him & I'm very disappointed as I don't know his address in Australia & he will be there before you get this, on a hospital boat - no names mentioned.  He intends coming back again, I believe - I'm afraid my trouble would be that if I once got to Australia I wouldn't feel like moving off again. I have very little news to tell you this time, my dear, & hope I'm not boring you stiff as the boys say, but as you will know by this time our life in camp is always very much the same routine unless active operations are in progress. We seem to have got the Germans pipped in France at last & I think it's only a matter of time until we have them completely settled - time of course is the nuisance.  Turkey must be feeling a bit sick too, I fancy & I think half their soldiers would desert to us if they hadn't been told that they would be killed if taken prisoner & the poor beggars are always surprised when our fellows give them cigarettes & food when they are captured. No more news my dear. I do hope you are feeling fit.  Best of love & a very large hug from Your loving son, Wilf.