Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 24 February 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


9th Light Horse Regt., 24. 2. 1916. My dear mother, I forget whether I had received your two letters when I wrote last, but think I had. Since then I have had one from Harry & one from Ern & Alice which were very welcome indeed. We are still jogging along here but word has come to hand this week that we are to move to. Gallipoli the Canal in a few days time. I think the object is to get the troops away from Cairo & to do a little patrol work down there It will probably be fairly warm & sandy but on the whole not such a bad place. I have been fairly busy during the last day or two buying enamel plates & cups for the mess & have found it rather a big task but it is almost finished now. We are packing the things in a nice wicker basket which I have bought & will contain them very nicely. We I think I told you last week that we were going to the Barage & we quite enjoyed the trip. I had to appear at a court- martial on the day that the others left, so. I stayed until they some hours after their departure & followed them with my groom. We had a much more pleasant
trip than we should have had with the Brigade as we were able to go at our own pace, where as the Brigade went along at a very slow monotonous rate. We took lunch with us & halted by the roadside under the shade of a tree, watered our horses in a small canal, bought them some greenstuff from a native near by & made short work of our own sandwiches & oranges. The ride was a very pretty one, but very similar to those I have so frequently described to you - level green fields on either side intersected by small irrigation canals, with cattle grazing in some places & small herds of goats shepherded by children to prevent them going on the young crops occasional clumps of palms scattered over the landscape & the inevitable mud villages. We accomplished the 23 miles in less than four hours & found that the Brigade had only just fed & watered their horses & themselves when we arrived. We went for a stroll round the gardens after this, then I looked round the lines to see that they were being kept properly clean & finally had tea. After this we smoked & talked & went to bed. The Colonel, Major Barlow (a dear old chap who has left us to take charge of the 2nd Regiment, Captain Bailey - the  Adjutant - & myself had our sleeping bags arranged round one tree & in we got & felt thoroughly happy. It was a glorious moonlight night we found it thoroughly enjoyeable to lie on the green grass & look round on the trees  around which were such a contrast to the sand here on which we usually look. I said to the Colonel that there was only another place in the world where I would prefer to be at that moment & that was home. I slept in a magnificent fashion & woke next morning to hear the birds chirruping among the trees & felt quite as if I were in Australia. We rose early had breakfast, fell  in & marched off. It was a splendid cavalcade extending for about 1½ miles & made quite an impression on the populace of Cairo as we marched through the city on our way home. The journey back occupied some 7 hours so we were all glad to be out of the saddle, though the trip was rendered much less monotonous by occasional rests, & walking on foot for a quarter of an hour occasionally. The medical cart distinguished itself on several occasions as it was drawn by two mules one of whom shied frequently, on once with disastrous
effects as it overturned the cart into a ditch some twelve feet deep. The driver was underneath but fortunately the cart fell all round him without injuring him at all. We had an interesting trip last Sunday as we set out to go the Sakkhara Pyramids but unfortunately  went to the wrong station - there are only two in Cairo - & found that we were too late to go to the other station in time for the train. However we were told that this train would take us somewhere near the placed we wished to go so we embarked on it. On alighting we found however that we had to walk five miles to get a boat over the canal Nile which we did & when we had crossed found there were no donkeys to tall within six miles to take us over the desert to the Pyramids so we gave it up in disgust, found a place which was a kind of general store & hotel, & there purchased some biscuits bread cheese beer lemonade b & nuts & set to work on our lunch with great relish. Five of us were in the party Major Parsons Captain Sukmann n Raglas & Bailey & myself - Dr Wesley was unable to come. After lunch we saw a huge sugar  refinery nearby & decided to explore it. 
We could not see the manager for some time however & when we did see him he could not give us permission to see the factory unless we had a pass from the city office. However he gave us coffee & cigarettes though he was unable to speak a word of English, as the company is a French one & most of the higher employees are f French. However I mustered up all my knowledge of French which is not at present very great & managed to exchange a few ideas with him to the great admiration & envy of the remainder of the party who were quite unable to talk f French at all. He showed us samples of the sugar & grew very affable indeed. The factory employs 700 men, the majority being natives with a few French & Italians over them & draws it’s sugar from the upper Nile where several factories prepare the sugar to a certain extent & then send it here for refining it being the only refining  place in Egypt. At the end the old man brought out a photograph which proved to be his son's grave in France, an only child of 21 years of age & the poor old man’s eyes filled with tears making me feel quite sad for him. It was very pathetic & we did what 
we could to express our sympathy. He warmly asked us to come again after obtaining passes from Cairo & we promised to do so & see all the factory. I called in today at the Davies & Bryans to say goodbye before going away & had afternoon tea there between my turns of shopping. / Must close now as my fingers are beginning to ache with best love to all the members of the family & a double share for mother from Her loving son, Wilf.

Am sending you the phote of Cousin Gwen & myself - it does not flatter the poor girl - she really never looks like she does in the picture. Look quite romantic doesn't it? 