Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 15 November 1915
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Anzac Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:

9th Light Horse Regiment,  Anzac,  November 15th 1915     My dear mother,  I am so glad to say that I had a mail  yesterday containing two letters from you, one from Mab  & one from Cedric Job. It was delightful to hear from  you again after a break of seven weeks. Your letters  were dated 8th & 16th of September & had been re - addressed   from Cairo.  Reading the news of your doings, with Ern &  Alice spending their holiday with you brought Candelo  so near & all that it contains - I could so well  imagine you staying at home & Ern minding the   nippers while the others went to the patriotic meeting in  the School of Arts, & I was glad to hear of your taking  care of yourself.  We are dodging along here in much   the same style as usual, making no attacks  & receiving none, the men are for the most part engaged  in improving the trenches & communications. We   received word last week to change our position  as some troops who had been away resting were  to take over our old spot & we were to go a   little lower down in place of some others. We were  all so comfortably settled down that the prospect  of turning out & fixing ourselves up again  was very unpleasant but had to be done.  The troops to relieve us arrived here one day & I took the medical officer into my dug  out & fixed him up there & the others went anywhere  - I think they all camped under the stars in  with their overcoats on. I am having a new  dressing station fixed up on this position  but it is not ready yet & I still occupy   the old post in conjunction with the  other chap who is a very decent fellow &  we hold our sick parades alternately.  It is rather awkward though & I shall  be glad when we move into our new quarters.  We can still see the ocean but have not such  a fine view as we are lower down This  week Charley Wesley was sent up to  relieve the medical officer of the 10th  Light Horse who is away resting at  Lemnos & so is practically only 200   yards away & you may imagine how pleasant  it is to have him so conveniently situated. Yesterday  we went for a walk down to the Ambulance together.  There we met quite a number of fellows we know  who were visiting Single who is at the Ambulance  at present. They were fellows who were at the  University at the same time as myself, McIntyre,   Plant & McKenzie & we all had a fine old pow-wow,  over cigarettes followed by afternoon tea.  One of the men in the ambulance Captain White had interesting indeed to stand in such a commanding  position with a telescope & just look at the different  places, Turks British New Zealanders & Australians  with their interminable rows of trenches & bivouacs  where the men camp in the shelter of hills protected  from shell fire, the white tents of hospitals  in the open as the Turk is a clean fighter  then the sea & the ships therein.  In  Suvla Bay there are generally three Warships &  a good number of transports. I received a   letter this week from a cousin Gwen Evans of  whom I heard many years ago (& now there is   another of the same name) who is working as  a Red Cross helper with two hundred  others in Alexandria.  She had contracted  Diphtheria & was just up out of bed & feeling  very lonely, had been given my Cairo address  by Ernest Hughes before leaving England  & wrote to me there at Cairo asking me to call &  see her if I was in Alexandria.  The letter was forwarded to me here & I felt  very sorry that I had missed seeing her  & she would doubtless think me unkind  for not replying, but I did so from here  immediately. I am still in good health  & spirits I am thankful to say & my  belt feels tighter so I conclude that I   am gaining weight. This week some good cigarettes sent him, which he  was fortunate enough to receive safely & which  everybody enjoyed after the issue cigarette which  we receive. You remember me saying that I sent  to Egypt for some books chocolates & tinned stuff.  I received quite a nice lot of books & a letter  from Stephen to whom I wrote (& who wrote to  you I think when I left Egypt) asking him to send  these things, & he said that he had posted  also the chocolates & tinned stuffs, but alas! I   fear they are filling someone else's stomach.  The pilfering which goes on in the post office  is frightful, some men receive parcels all right  but if they are not very firmly done up & look quite  harmless (as if they contain nothing eatable) they easily  goe astray.  Some fellows have them labelled Poison!  or socks. The Department is doing it's best I   think but so far it is not very successful. One of  the positions we hold here is Tabletop from which  one of the best panoramic views of the position Peninsula is  obtained. It commands the whole & more of that view  which I have already described to you as being seen from  Tabletop & with a telescope the vessels in Suvla Bay  show out very distinctly & one can see the men walking about  on the shore near there & all the stream of traffick.  Also one can pick up the Red Cross Flag over the  white tents of the field hospitals there in which possibly  my our cousin Majr. Evans may possibly be. It is very papers arrived for my predecessor - Tatler Bystander & some Land & Waters which are splendid & I quite enjoyed them. He  had them sent from England. Sorry to  say that most of the papers you Harry & Ern so  kindly sent have not reached me, only  about three or four in all. I still have  my vest pocket Kodac & am taking  some snaps which I hope will be  interesting when I am able to have them developed.  One third of the whole of the Brigade have gone away to Lemnos to rest as they have  been here all the time since May about 3 weeks  after the first landing & they were due for a spell  & my batman went off though he was loth  to go without me, but I sent him as he had   been here from the beginning. I have another  very decent lad who wanted a rest from  trench work, quite a decent chap, of good  family I think as his people own some station  or other in S. Australia. He likes being with me  I think as he has easy work & is a friend of  the Corporal in the dispensary with whom he  has his meals & he is trying to learn something of  A.M.C. work of which he seems very fond. I think my dear I have exhausted  practically all the news I possess  this time as day follows day in very  similar fashion.  Just at present   I can hear some big naval guns  bombarding away down towards  Cape Helles, they have outbursts every now  & again. Please send round to  all the family with this letter my  heartiest wishes for all success  & prosperity in the New Year & for  a happy reunion during it after  a successful ending to these troubled  times Much love to all & a double  share to mother from  Her loving son,  Wilf. 
 
