Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 17 December 1917
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:



17.12.1917  My dear mother, Australian mail has arrived & brought letters from you & Ern, which always take one so much nearer home. I must certainly write a special letter to the Candelo knitting society & thank them for the parcels they have sent, two of which have come safely to hand. How I wish I could be in Sydney with you now & help you to choose a house & so on - I wish to goodness the old war would end & let me get back to the old land & occupation once more. I think if it doesn't end I must try & get home somehow or another, the difficulty is that in order to do so one must have good financial reasons & I can't say that I have any very involved affairs at all, unless you can manage to find any special reasons which might satisfy the military authorities. Since I last wrote you I have seen Jack, I heard of  the whereabouts of his unit so away I went on the chase & eventually located him some six miles from where we then were. He was fortunately at home & very glad we were to see each other. He looks very well indeed, better than I have seen him for some time & seems quite pleased with life in every way. He said he intended cabling to you for Xmas. Since then I have had another very interesting experience - I have been to Jerusalem my dear. We did not take part in the attack on the country near Jerusalem & were some 30 miles away but on this particular day, a car happened to be going there & I seized the chance. It was a fine touring Sunbeam car & we had a pleasant party aboard so had a glorious day. At first our road lay on the flat fertile country but we soon entered the hills & the road from then onwards eclipsed any one I have known in steepness & the number  of sharp turns in it. And no wonder, for the hills are so preciptous that one would wonder that it is possible to proceed by road at all. Hill succeeds hill, & valley their sides covered with sharp boulders & falling away precipitously into deep valleys. Here & there are clustered small villages, which are so familiar to us from Biblical illustrations with their stone walls & flat roofs, & generally perched on the steep side of a hill. How the people subsist on the country is a mystery, but the soil is very rich if it can be cultivated & they use the bottom of the valleys to grow olive trees & vines & also make little terraces on the sides of the hills & the soil is so fertile that a few scratches are sufficient to grow a crop. We climbed & climbed over one hill after another, until at last we reached the crest of the range from where we could see the Meditteranan in the distance & the valleys instead of leading down towards the sea now led in the direction of the Jordan. Amid these old world surroundings the presence of t numerous troops with their wagons & guns seemed out of place & one wondered how they ever succeeded in driving the Turk from such a stronghold & one can understand the old importance of Jerusalem as a fortress. The road was badly cut up in places by so much military traffic but hundreds of men were busily engaged in mending it & we passed over quite readily. After passing more villages & more vil valleys we suddenly shot into Jerusalem itself. We entered the modern city first & were surprised to see so many fine buildings & good streets. After fighting for so long in the desert where only Arabs & their tents are seen, it gave us a thrill of pleasure to at last enter a city so well worth the taking as Jerusalem. We eventually came to the  Hotel Fast where we alighted & tried to obtain lunch but so many officers were there that we could obtain none but ordered eggs & tea for three o'clock. Food is scarce in Jerusalem as their usual supply is now cut off & tea & sugar are practically unknown but they have some kind of imitation tea which is a very poor substitute. We then went to the Military Commandant & obtained passes to enter the old city & a guide to direct us.  We went first to the site of Solomon's temple, where over which is built a magnificent Mohammedan mosque - the mosque of Omar. It is built on a huge rock which was the base of the old temple & one climbs up some steps before reaching the level of the floor. It is circular in shape with a dome on top & one must cover his shoes before entering, as is the usual custom. The interior is gorgeous, white pillars  of beautifully polished marble stretch upwards some forty feet to the dome, the walls are formed of marble slabs, the floors covered with beautiful carpets. The roof is most beautifully painted decorated with a in the Oriental fashion with all ki a kind of scroll design painted in gold, & small windows which let in a subdued light are formed of topaz. It is divided by a circular partition into an outer & inner rig ring. Inside the inner circle is a tremendous rock upon which Abraham offered to slay Isaac & cut out of this solid rock are some steps leading down to a cavern wh in which are four marble altars for Abraham Elijah Isaac & another of the prophets. Tremendous labour must have been done to carve out this place as the rock is absolutely solid & is I think granite in nature. We were shown the place where Mohammed placed his foot & this is most venerably regarded by the Mohammedans. It is We were then ushered to the door by the patriach with long flowing beard who  was showing us round. We next went towards the Mount of Olives upon which several churches are built to commemorate different events. It is a rounded hill with three well marked prominences & has clusters of olive trees at different parts, elsewhere being devoid of trees & g slopes down toward Jerusalem & just on  the outskirts of the town is the Garden of Gethsemane. Time did not permit of us exploring this but the view from where we were is disappointing - it was not the  beautiful garden I had pictured it but a small enclosed space with stone wall round it, & containing a few trees. Different sects claim different places as gardens & the church of Mary Magdalene is built on one of these & certainly looked very beautiful from where we were. We then retraced our steps towards Pilate's house & on our way saw the place where the waters were troubled on the  appearance of the angel & where the man sick of the palsy took up his bed & walked. From Pilate's house we proceeded along the Via Dolorosa where Christ bore the cross & along this several stations are marked where certain events occurred. The first & second is where Christ fell under the weight of the cross & then follows the spot where Simon the tanner assisted to carry it. I think the walk along this path where Christ went to his cross is the most sacred of all. The other holy places are generally covered with churches, where different sects squabble in a disgraceful way for pre-eminence & defile the  place with their squabblings, but here is the plain almost unadorned path leading between rows of houses only a couple of yards wide, which needs no adornment to render it sacred. The houses often communicate over one's head by stone or wood ledges a yard or two wide. We eventually reached Calvary which stands on an eminence & the whole area where the crucifixion took place is covered with a collection of churches under one roof. The Greek church has the main part, the Armenians have one, the Copts  another, the Abysinnians another & have the Roman Catholics one also. The exact spot where the cross stood is shown - whether it is true or not I don't know & the cleft in the rock near by. The sepulchre where Christ was kissed is also shown & here are 34 ls lamps of silver which are always burning & are allotted to the different denominations mentioned above. The tombs of Joseph of Arimithea & Nicodemus are adjacent & can also be seen cut in the solid rock. As time was now short & we had many miles to go before we reached home we hastened back to the hotel for our afternoon tea & then bade farewell to the holy city for a time. I forgot to mention that we saw the hotel of place where Christ dismissed the money changers also, but a call has come for me now & I must close this letter & away with much love & many hugs from Your loving son Wilf.  I bought some books of views & some trinkets at a Armenian shop in Jerusalem which I am posting in a day or two.
Description of Jerusalem