Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 10 June 1917
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:



10.6.1917 My dear mother, I was glad to hear that you were spending a few days at Goulburn before going home & would also like to hear of you spending some of the winter months with Mab. Just at present it’s rather warm here & a beastly dust storm blowing, coating everything thickly with villainous dust. Since I last wrote I had to go down to Rafa to sort out a dump we had there & clean things up so I took my batman with me & rode down. I billeted myself on Max Yuille once in this Ambulance & now a Major in another & at present stationed near the dump in question with a portion of his Ambulance. Being the only officer 
there he was  glad of company & instead of finishing up my job in one day I stayed three & found it quite a pleasant break. One of the chief advantages was that I did not have to get up at 3 a.m. to stand to arms as we do here. That is one of the worst features of our life here at present - one thing I object to is getting up early & 3 a.m. is the dizzy limit. However we go to bed at 8 o’clock so that helps a little & I believe we only have a day or two longer to do & then someone else takes a turn. While staying with Yuille we went over to the sea for a swim - a walk of some three miles or so there & 3 miles back so we had a good afternoons exercise. We also went to dinner at the Flying Corps & heard of some of the experiences of the pilots. They are nearly all young fellows & have had a very trying time lately. I  rode back on the third day & stayed for lunch with another Ambulance on the way where I know some of the fellows. Had a very pleasant hour or two there. We all know each other fairly well in the various Light Horse Ambulances & if passing call in & see each other on the way. By the way, did you ever receive that blank cheque fr I signed & sent on to you? I sometimes think it wouldn't be half a bad plan to invest one or two hundred pounds in some of the war loans as they offer very good interest far better than one can get in the bank, the only trouble being that it is tied up for so long & one may need to use it later on. I believe my application for leave to Cairo will be approved of & I should be able to go in a few days when our Colonel returns. The Colonel of this Ambulance got a D.S.O. out of the Birthday Honors this time in recognition of the work of the unit, so will be very  pleased with himself. No more this time my dear, hope the indigestion is well with much love to all & mother's invariable share from her loving son Wilf.