Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 28 August 1917
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:



28.8.1917.  My dear mother, Australian mail day! And such a good mail, this time, with lots of papers from Ern Harry yourself & a couple of books Charley Wesley sent from England. I had a letter from Jack today which took a fortnight to reach me, as he wrote to Cairo to my address there & has received none of my letters as he has changed his address too. I also find, my dear, that reading your letters brings you so much nearer & I think the mail is the best thing we receive here. I hope you have not gone to the expense of buying one of those body shields for me as it is really not necessary, though I do appreciate the motives behind it, I wonder if you could cancel the order if it has not been delivered. In my present position I am not nearly so much exposed to danger as I was in the Field Ambulance & in this hot climate it would be impossible to wear any steel jacket however fine it is. Fancy you intending to leave Candelo at last! The thing we have been looking forward to, for so many years & hoping that we should be able to join together in Sydney. Well well, my dear it won't last so very much longer & then it will 
be splendid. The trouble now is for you to pick a home as it is so expensive if you have no settled place to live in. Whatever you do, don't tie yourself down to another spot too firmly until matters are more settled. Wish I could get leave home, but fear that is out of the question just now though there is a lot of talk of 5 weeks leave to England for Australians in Egypt which would be a splendid thing if only you were there. It is terribly difficult to go to Australia nowadays as there is hardly any direct boat communication save when a hospital boat goes along. If they would allow women to come to Egypt that would be very fine, but still it is so very far & it is no use coming so far as this unless you could go on to England, I certainly think when the war is over we should decide on going to England - I would like to go direct from here to try & do some more hospital work if the military authorities would allow it & if you could come along from Australia it would be splendid. In the meantime however where are you going to live? That is the question. Somewhere near Sydney I think where Harry Ern & Mab could call in conveniently. But not in the City or even the suburbs unless on the very outskirts. 
A nice good big patch of ground & a new little house & a garden & some fowls & in a convenient & pleasant spot. But where that is the trouble! Parsley Bay is the only spot, I can think of just at present & fulfills most of the condition especially as you have many friends about there and it is convenient to town though at the same time fresh & almost in the country. I almost thought I was in Australia when I was scrawling away at that. One thing I want to tell you now & that is not to worry about Jack now he is in the Divisional train - it is the safest job out here that he could have been drafted into & as for myself on Divisional Headquarters it would really be very bad luck indeed to get hurt, so chin up mother mine & we will hope to see you in no time at all with a nice little central home. Mr Marshall might be able to suggest a good spot. if you can't think of one yourselves & I daresay father has got  one in the back of his noddle that he has seen thinking over at night when smoking his pipe of capstan & pretending to read the paper & will suddenly spring it on you some of these days - now what about it father haven't you? I have been passing the days fairly pleasantly here this week - the job is new & variety especially as military life is charming. I get up late in the morning - quite a luxury,  do some office work after breakfast, and then generally go for a ride round inspecting camps, making for the most suitable spot about lunch time. Later. Here slight interruption for a little office work & would you believe it a trooper just dropped in with a letter from no less a person than Jack who is only about 5 miles away. I had just written him a note too which is a marvellous thing. So I will ride over on the first day I have a chance, probably the day after tomorrow.  Only two days a go I went past that spot on my way to spend a day at the beach little knowing that Jack was near by. Three of us went across to visit Cave who is now a Colonel in charge of the 1st Ambulance. By the way Colonel Fraser who is in charge of the 3rd Ambulance & was there constantly during my period in the Ambulance & with whom I went through most of the work is going to Australia shortly. He lives in Queensland but is almost sure to call in at Sydney & I will give him Jobs address & also our own as it possible that you may see him though if he called in at Jobs they would give him all news of you as they are in touch with you . You would like to see him I'm  sure, as we have been quite a lot together Almost tea time mother mine so I must soon come to a conclusion. I have a horribly large appetite nowadays but that I suppose is a good sign. Living at Headquarters is more expensive than in the Ambulance - costs about 5/- a day but we do fairly well. Tinned things over here have gone up enormously in price & I suppose the same holds good in Australia. News finish my dear best of love to all & mothers usual love from Her loving son Wilf