Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 12 January 1917
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:



12.1.1917 My dear mother, A mail is expected here ta today or tomorrow but I have quite a lot to tell you so will start right away. We have had another scrap as you doubtless know & I sent off another cable today with Smith who went right away to Port Said & will get it away tomorrow & you should have it on Sunday or Monday. I sent the last by letter to Mr Bryan in Cairo & have just received a letter from him saying he sent it off but it took a week to reach him. I put in the cable to send more tobacco as I am on the last tin of Lucy Hinton & smoked some other stuff today & didn't like it one bit. Would it be too much to ask you my dear to send me say 3 tins each month not to be paid for from your money but from my cheques. I think that will just keep me going & allow me to offer others some If sent in little lots it has more chance of arriving or some of it. I think it would be better to send half of it as plug tobacco for the tinned is often too dried up when it reaches here & the plug is easier to send & keeps better - but please don't say you will pay for it or I will regret having asked you to send it.
Now about the latest scrap. We knew for some days previously that it was brewing & we left here about midday on the 9th inst. We crossed our old friend the Wady El Arish, & instead of following it as before to Magdaba went at right angles to it along the sea - coast but about two or three miles inland. We travelled all night continuously & suffered considerably from the cold as it was an exceptionally chilly night. x These night marches are very trying as one becomes terribly sleepy in the early hours of the morning & rides along in a kind of dream sometimes dozing off on the saddle & waking up with a sudden jerk to find that the horse has strayed out of the line & is going off alone. x We approached Rafa which is 30 miles East of El Arish at dawn & then the General commanding made a reconnaissance of the place & then disposed his troops accordingly. The redoubts to be taken were very strong indeed & there was not a scrap of shelter for man or beast for miles round so that the undertaking was a very formidable one as the Turks were well supplied with machine guns & had a battery of artillery of the latest type of mountain guns. The different Brigades then moved forward to their allotted posts going right round the position until it was completely surrounded. Then of course some had to be sent out to our rear into enemy country to protect us from attack in that direction. We moved forward with our Brigade but before proceeding with the account of the battle I must say a little more of the country. The first ten or twelve miles on our way from El Arish was desert except at the mouth of the Wady El Arish where there is a considerable Arab population who tried to sell us fresh carrots & parsnips as we passed along but we weren't having any just then. After this the country improved & towards Rafa was almost all under cultivation. The soil just became clay mixed with sand & then almost pure clay, & oats was springing up everywhere. This is sown & cultivated by the Arabs & Bedouins who live in peculiar tents made from long strips of camel & goat hair carpet about 3 feet wide & some yards in length & resembles 
stair carpet very much. Several of these strips are supported alongside one another from 3 to 6 feet from the ground & the sides closed in forming long flat low shelters which look very peculiar at first Surely the Biblical expression "To your tents O Israel" must have referred to such structures as these for the ones I mention were actually in Palestine the border of which we crossed just before we started the battle which was fought partly in the Holy Land. The Arab population is very large indeed & they have numerous flocks of sheep & goats grazing on the country & many camels & horses. They are not a very attractive class of people & have the unfortunate habit of disinterring our dead from the ground in order to take the clothes & belongings from the bodies One of our airmen who was wounded in a fight with an enemy machine & his machine forced to descend into the sea swam ashore & fell into the hands of these people who stripped him of his clothes, when suddenly a patrol of our men came on the scene & quickly turned the tables on the Bedouins. To continue with the battle. The Brigades formed a splendid sight as they rode them to their positions & surrounded the enemies position then deployed into line facing the enemy gradually closed in & then dismounted & advanced in open order. Our artillery were soon in position & commenced to bombard the enemies trenches. We left our tent division well behind where the erected their tents, made fires & prepared hot food & dressings for the receipt of patients x which we would collect & bring them on our sand carts. The enemy's batterys now opened fire in reply to our guns & the rifles machine gun fire increased in intensity. We x chose a spot for our wagons at the foot of a small rise, where there was a little shelter though not very much & a couple of wounded were reported from my old regiment & I took a cart round & picked them up from where their led horses were in a the lee of a hill Quite a number of slightly wounded cases commenced to come in & we were kept busy dressing them & sending them off. Then wounded about 3p.m. it was reported that there were quite a number of wounded men in a position about a mile forward from us & about 600 yards from the enemy in the open. The question was could we get them with a reasonable chance of our sand carts & it's three drivers & six horses coming through safely? " The Colonel & I viewed the spot & were doubtful as the whole mile was exposed to heavy fire. The xxxx The Colonel was in a quandary to know what to do & I suddenly saw my duty ahead. (Now this part is for not to go outside the family please) You can do what you like with the rest. I thought of you & what it would mean if anything happened to me. I also thought of wounded men lying helpless & left on the field to die. What could I do? I told the Colonel I thought I had better take a cart round & get them & after a little demur he agreed. Now mother mine, I ask you again, would you have me not go? Possibly it might help you if you remembered the old text 'God gave his only beloved son etc" I am being perfectly frank in my description of this battle as it is useless to hide from you that there was danger & a lot of it, ten times more 
than I have ever previously passed through as conditions were so exceptionally difficult for whenever in were even at our depot bullets were dropping into the ground about us. Well to continue, I sent up one small prayer & took 3 sand carts & with their 9 drivers & 4 stretcher bearers & after seeing that each cart had its red cross flag well fixed up started off. We made a detour & then proceeded up a long valley with just a gradual rise on either side which although it hid is from the Turks offered no protection from bullets. We picked up a man shot through the head very soon - he had been carried for a mile by two bearers who volunteered to show me the best way to the other wounded. As we went on bullets began to drop thicker & thicker around us, x & at last I decided that it wasn't worth risking my men & myself by going further just then so we pulled up. This spot however proved very bad - one bullet went between my horses leg & mine & hit the ground xxx just beyond & they were whistling about everywhere. So I gave the order for a hurried retreat & we got to a better spot. The firing then eased off & little & I decided to go on (it did xx require a lot of screwing up of courage though as I was as frightened as could be). So we advanced rapidly over the ground & soon 
afterwards can into full view of the Turkish positions at about 800 yards range. I then left the sandcart there, dismounted the bearers x & sent them along for the wounded. The most remarkable thing was that after the sandcart emerged into full view of the Turks not a shot went near it & I think at a great credit to them that they thus respected the Red Cross flag as they could easily have completely destroyed all the horses & men at that range. The Colonel of the Regiment was lying full length flat on the ground in a little place he had excavated by scratching out the sand & which was the only cover he could get. Several other such holes were scratched near him & I immediately joined him & we lay down side by side while he told me what wounded he had & my bearers brought them along. While we were in this position a machine gun played over the top of our poor shelters & it was quite eerie to hear the bullets whistling a foot or two above one's head. I enquired what he thought of 
the position & he said he thought it was very bad as it was about impossible to advance over such ground any further. So we didn't feel very happy about things at all. My wounded had by this time been brought to the cart & the machine gun had stopped, so I jumped up like a rabbit from it's burrow & ran down to the cart & helped to get in the wounded. We had no trouble from bullets at all there but just at this time the enemy shelled the machine guns just near us very heavily so I hurried up the loading as they approached near to us & off we went at full gallop with our wounded We were very glad when we had crossed our bad patch of indirect fire again & then on the next slope when I sent on the carts to the dressing station away in the rear & joined the Colonel again myself at his advanced post. Here I thought we would have a welcome spell from nerve tension but just as I settled down for a rest (how I longed for some tea as the excitement had made my throat parched & dry) two or three German aeroplanes came along & dropped about a dozen large bombs near us & if there is anything hardly anything more trying than the screech of a bomb as it descends through the air & one wonders for a few tense seconds where it will strike. Soon after this word came of more wounded on the left & the Colonel went off leaving me in charge of our advanced post. The condition of affairs at the time was very precarious as I afterwards learnt but did not know at the time but it was as follows -: We were very largely held up by this strong position which we had surrounded & so part of our troops were in it's rear & then word was received by the commander that from a captured Turk that their reinforcements to the number of 3 3000 to 4000 were advancing on us & so would strike our rear & catch us between two fires. This is corroborated by our scouts who had been sent out in the rear & further by the aeroplanes that hostile forces to the number of 4000 were only 3 miles distant from us. As you may imagine it was a terrible position & the General commanding was reluctantly compelled to give orders to withdraw. This message was not received by the New Zealanders who had got very close to the Turkish position & our own general brigadier I believe put it in his pocket & said nothing. One Brigade commenced to act on the orders & the Turkish fire became concentrated on them. We heard 
the news of withdrawal & as you may imagine were terribly downcast. However just at this moment the New Zealanders taking advantage of the Turkish fore being concentrated on the returning Brigade leapt forward & charge & our Brigadier seeing them going called out "On Boys" & away they went & next moment up went the white flag. One redoubt to the left still kept firing but eventually was overcome & surrendered. We could hardly believe that it had actually happened as they charge was so remarkable. However we were in a precarious position still -30 miles from our base, horses & men tired horses not watered for a whole day & men without rations & a fresh enemy force advancing on us. The prisoners to the number of 1600 & the mountains battery were rounded up & removed. All ambulances had been ordered previously to take to their heels with their wounded & go for their lives. They all obeyed with the exception of ours & stray oddments of others such as a sand cart or two & one officer. The Colonel was away on the field collecting wounded & so was Capt Bassett & I was directing the sand cart operations to different in charge of a the central place where we were collecting our wounded to on the field & directing the carts to the necessary quarters. I soon had 30 or 40 cases including some Turkish wounded & it being now quite dark had two hurricane lanterns one to dress wounded with & the second placed on a rise as a guide to the carts. It was only then that I learnt of the approach of Turkish reinforcements as our staff Captain came along & said that we would have to go & that quickly. I just was very busy attending wounded & just said it was impossible & went on & would you believe it never thought another word or Turkish reinforcements or being taken prisoner & even forgot to mention it to the Colonel when he returned sometime later, as I was so busy. However I sent off a message to the ADMS our chief medical man telling his the number of wounded we had - far more than our carts would carry, which was the reason for our making a central collecting place on the field - & told him that many more were still on the field. I went on dressing - one man bled frightfully from a terrible wound in the legs & I had to stop that as best I could & x there were men arriving every moment needing dressing & morphia to ease their pain. It was then that I participated in a scene which will remain in my memory as long as I live. A New Zealand officer had been shot in the stomach & while I was attending him vomited up a large amount of blood & from his appearance I thought he could not live more than a few moments so I said to him - "In case anything happens to you can I do anything for you". It was very blunt I fear but he calmly said or rather whispered "That's right doctor, I'm glad you put it plainly I would like to write to my wife & mother." So he dictated & I wrote a note to each which he signed at the bottom, as he was just barely able to do, one two of the noblest & most pathetic letters possible. He simply stated that he thanked God he had died doing his duty, sent them his love & bad them goodbye. And when it was all finished, he said "But I'm not done yet doctor, & I'm going to live if I can". All I can say is that I hope when my turn to die comes I may face death in a similar manner. I don't think any previous experience in my life has so affected me as that scene. However he did not die then & I brought him back some ten miles later on & the last I heard of him was that he was still living & let us devoutly hope that my original prognosis was wrong, though his chances were very poor. We had the field cleared of wounded about nine o'clock & then took them back to our xxxx dressing station the rear some two miles away but it took many trips of the sandcarts to do it. But no conveyances were now to hand which would clear away our wounded & we decided to remain there during the night. The Brigades moved away and left a small number to protect us & our Brigadier was a very anxious man when he left us, as he thought almost at the mercy of the Turks but he could not do otherwise as he had to go back to water the horses & feed the men. However nothing happened & the Colonel took most of the bearers back about 2 a.m. & then Bassett & I took off our own carts full of wounded about  four o'clock & Major White remained till next morning when a convoy came out and took him & his wounded back about ten a.m. The party of troops remained a little longer & towards midday were attacked by some hostile troops for cavalry & camel forces whom they drove off & took 14 of them prisoners & then returned. We arrived here about 9 p.m. that night, terribly weary as we had had no sleep during the previous two nights & had ridden over

QUICK TO STRIKE 3RD LIGHT HORSE BRIGADE.  70 miles & been through so much excitement & work. However I am looking back on it with satisfaction & when our Brigade was paraded by the General commanding our division a day or two ago to in order to address them on the result of the fight, our Ambulance was very highly commended for the work it had done & afterwards the Colonel Major White & myself were asked to morning tea with our Brigadier as a mark of appreciation. Now my dear mother I have given you a full & true account of what happened & I don't think you would have me do otherwise than I did. When possible I avoided risk but where the plain path of duty called me to risk myself for the sake of those men wounded & in need of attention I could not do otherwise than risk it.  E This last fight has made me realize as never before that there is something greater than even excelling in the profession of healing & that is the sacrifice if necessary of oneself for them. Mind you, this is all very well in peace & quietness but one's resolution is very apt to falter at the last minute when in the stress of battle as mine almost did on several occasions the other day as I was beastly frightened but that is the point of view I take. Don't think from this, my dear, that I'm looking for risks & am going to run into them. For your sake & my own I'm dodging all the risks I reasonably can, and I don't think we will ever have a battle again where conditions are so unfavorable for us in our work & I don't think we are going to have much hard work of the kind just at present. Moreover I  feel that I'm coming back all right to you, but I want you not to worry because this last thing was a little dangerous but rather to feel pleased that you were able to give one of your sons to help the wounded in the war. And now my dear goodbye for the present I do hope you won't worry about this with lots of love from Your loving son Wilf 