Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 1 October 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Camp Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


1.10.16.  My dear mother,  It is quite a cool and peaceful Sabbath  morning & we are lazing about reading & dozing & we  would enjoy it I think if every other day didn't  bear too close a resemblance to Sunday & we really did  a good days work occasionally. I do sincerely hope  that you are better & look forward to the next mail  to bring better news of your health, that is if it is  real news and not faked for my benefit. We are  still ensconsced in our little spot here & are comfortable  & I wish I could send along to you snapshots of it  but the trouble is that films are very difficult to  obtain & when we do have them the next trouble   is to get them developed & I have a couple of  spools waiting to go to Cairo when I or anyone  else from here obtains leave. We have quite a   good number of visitors at the Ambulance hardly  a day passes but one person drops in sometimes  a medico from one of the regiments, or the Veterinary  officer or the Brigade Major who is Major  Dangar one of the well known Singleton  family & a very good fellow he is too. He held  a commission in a Hussar regiment in England  in days gone by I believe but enlisted from  Australia as Captain. The Colonel from here
& I rode over to an Adjacent Light Horse  Brigade one afternoon to see some friends we  both know & on the way over stopped at a   "hod" & had a fine feed of dates which were   the best I have seen. Beith who is the medico  of the particular regiment we went to see was  in the same year as myself and we had   quite a pleasant chat. We called at the   Ambulance also, as our Colonel was a Major  there before he came to us & consequently knew  most of the people there & I know Damon  who was a Sydney man. I walked over   to see my old regiment yesterday & had  afternoon tea & just wandered round  from headquarters officers' mess to each  of the squadron officers' messes gossiping  on the way round & trying to pick up  any current rumors or disseminate any  I knew, as one of our chief delights  is telling or listening to rumors - most  of them entirely without foundation, but  the first greeting is always - "Any news?"  I also went one afternoon to see an English  doc. in a Scotch battery which is attached  to us - a funny looking old bird he is  & he asked us to go over & though we tried  to dodge it we couldn't very well manage it.  We didn't like his appearance too much 
& that was the reason - he was a  rather scruffy looking seedy old chap  of 40 or 50 years with the appearance of  a “Sooky”. However he improved with  acquaintance & his C.O. was rather an  interesting man, friend of Lord Churchill's   & so on, at least the doc. said so.  We quite unexpectedly had a heavy shower of  rain in the middle of the night this week  & of course no provision is made here for  such contingencies - the men were all sleeping  out in the open & we in our humpies &  fortunately mine had too waterproof  sheets on top, but the rain soon beat  through the palmy sides & commenced  to soak my blankets so I was  reluctantly compelled to rise & dump my  things under another waterproof. Just  as I rose I managed to stand under  a stream of water which was pouring  through an opening in my roof & I received  it down my back. However my place didn't  get very wet & I found that two of my blankets   were dry & I spent a fairly comfortable  night but how the poor beggars managed  who had no roof or only a palm roof I  don't know- went wet I suppose. 
We have had no German aeroplane over for a  week now - rumor says that they are evacuating  El Arish or at any rate some prisoners who  came in said so. Aeroplanes are wonderful  things - just imagine when we are on one of  these treks of ours in the middle of the  desert a plane suddenly swoops down on us  to within about 40 yards from the ground  & drops a message telling what it has   seen over the enemies position & then soars  away again. And then there is the wireless  which is usually carried & as soon as camp  is fixed up, so is the wireless & communication  is got with headquarters away at the  base. Then every regiment keeps in touch  with its neighbour or it's own squadrons  by heliographs which flash their messages  from one hill top to another. Really  modern war is a wonderful thing.  But I must conclude hoping both  you and father are quite well now & with  much love from  Your loving son  Wilf. My dear if you ever want to send anything  something of the sweet variety is always  appreciated as we find it difficult to  obtain here so when you have time again a cake  or some butterscotch would be greatly appreciated but not if you  are tired.