
Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 14 August 1918
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: France
Nationality: Australian

Text:


14. 8. 1918. 
My dear mother, I was indeed grieved to hear that you had again received no letters from you me. In your letter of June 15th you seemed so despondent about it, I felt quite sad & would have cabled but am sure you must have received my letters since that time as it is nearly two months ago & some of my letters which should have reached you then were addressed to Harry & some to the boarding house at North Sydney & some to your new home, but first of all to Greja before you changed the name. x I can quite understand that you may miss some of those too if a different name is over the door now, but I am sure you will have received some of them. I'm awfully disappointed that they are wandering over the country & wonder if it would be worth inquiring at the P.O. I suppose Candelo would forward them to you would they not? But not the place at Vaucleuse? Well, my dear, I think I have some good news for you. I mentioned to Col. Fowler who is taking Col Dixon's place that you were not well & wanted me at home & yesterday he was at a conference at Corps H.Q. & mentioned the matter to Col Downes who as you know is the chief of the A.M.C. here & practically governs the movements of medical officers. He said that my name was already down as 7th on the list to go home without having applied for it & some of the others who were before me on the list (having been over a little longer) were not very desirous of going home. So Col. Fowler thinks that if I apply & pitch a fairly good tale that I should be able to manage it, & I think the fact that you are getting old & are not strong &  wish to see me after so long a period will be quite sufficient. So my dear, you can pick yourself up with the thought that you may see me quite soon. I will write out my application tomorrow & though I may possibly not get home on the first boat that leaves I should have the best of chances of leaving at any rate before Xmas. And my word, wouldn't I like to be with you for Christmas. So, please, my dear, don't overwork, try & get yourself real well for me to come home to, if the house is a bit dusty what matters it? & if someone does dirty the steps well let it rest just to please me & keep yourself fit. Since I last wrote, nothing very much has happened here, we have just gone on in much the usual way doing our usual routine of anti mosquito work sanitation & so on. Col Fowler was away for a couple of days at Jerusalem & I carried on in his absence & so kept myself fairly busy. This morning I had a fairly long trip out to some of our far mosquito areas went partly by motorcar & partly by horse. It was fairy hot down at the Jordan but cooled down a little when a few clouds came up. Just the last day or two we have noticed a few clouds for the first time during the whole Later next morning before breakfast. summer.   The parcel you sent me arrived safely yesterday & I have just been having some of the biscuits. Our boys bring us in cup of tea in the morning & biscuits help it down quite a lot. Very many thanks my dear for your thoughtfulness but I really wish you wouldn't spend money on me. I noticed in the papers a few day ago that Charlie Wesley had been wounded in France & sincerely hope it isn't serious. Since I saw his name on the Casualty list, I have received a letter from him, but it must have been previous to his wound as he says nothing of it. I have written & asked him to send me all particulars. Sorry I can't raise any more news this time, my dear, but possibly the bit I gave you at the beginning of the letter may be worth much. Hoping you are better & taking every possible care of yourself, with lots of love & hugs from Your loving son Wilf.

Wilfreds August 14. 1918