Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 20 January 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


9th L.H. Regt. Racecourse Camp, Heliopolis, 20.1.1916.  [*Am sending the cheque for £100 in this letter. (Which I placed on fixed deposit today - March 2nd 1916.) to Wilfred (M.L.) Credit. in ComBank.*]  My dear mother, You will probably receive this letter by the same mail as the last one which I had to finish up in a hurry, & I will just continue where I left off two days ago. I think I told you that Cousin Gwen Evans was in town so I thought it a fair thing to take the young lady out so last night met her at six o,clock in the  & engaged a table at Shepheards Hotel for dinner - quite stylish don't you think? Dinner never takes place here until nearly eight o'clock so we went for a run round town & Gwen suggested that it would 
be rather fun to have our photos  taken together by flashlight so off we toddled & had a  cheap photo taken. Then we  went to Shepheards  had a nice little dinner & a little drive afterwards along the Nile by moonlight (very shocking my dear) & back to the National Hotel where she was staying at 10.15. So,  my dear, I have been doing  my best to see & know what I can of my English cousins while I have the chance, & really it isn't a bit hard to do when they are young & rather pretty. But please don't get alarmed my dear, it's merely cousinly interest & nothing more. I think I told you that we went the previous night to see the Davies Bryans & I saw the first little bit of real home life since I left Australia. Last Sunday I went to our church parade in the morning at 10 a.m. & it was a fine sight to see our Brigade drawn up on three sides of a hollow square with the Chaplain in the centre & in the march past afterwards they looked splendid. A band has been formed & they played - the hymns for us & a choir also had been started, though one hardly realized they were present as they made very little noise. I did not enjoy the service much, as the singing was poor, the chaplain's voice heard with the greatest difficulty & any reverent spirit was 
quickly dispelled when one saw some of the fellows commence to smoke & an officer go along & take their names. One could hardly blame them as they heard little & found time hang heavily. Wesley & I intended going in the evening to a Church at Heliopolis but it proved a fiasco - merely a room with chair & tables crowded with men & no sign of a service when we passed. Last Saturday afternoon Wesley & I with McKenzie who is veterinary officer with the 10th, went for quite a long ride to the Tombs of the Khalifs near Cairo. We rode past the hospital at Heliopolis then over the desert - through Abassieh where there are very large barracks which were built by Kitchener for the Army which always occupied Egypt. They constitute one of the largest barracks in the world & are built of stone with nice verandahs around them & three stories high, & cover acres & acres of ground. We then came on the Egyptian Army isd quarters, which & their we saw the black recruits being drilled.  The Egyptian Army is drawn largely from the Soudanese I believe & they are very well trained & after serving for several years in the Army they are used as policemen so that the Cairo police are a fine body of men & they are beautifully dressed.   In the summer they are clothed in white with the usual  red tarboosh on the head, & their uniforms are always clean & neat. In the winter they wear a kind of dark serge uniform which looks very well especially as the buttons & trappings are always highly polished. We watched for some time on Saturday the mounted recruits being trained in horsemanship, vaulting on to their horses without stirrups, then sitting on their horses without stirrups & with their arms folded behind their backs & the horses trotting round a circle led by one man acting as guide who had his reins & stirrups.  Then they performed various arm exercises with their horses proceeding at a trot.   After this we rode on further & chanced to pass a place which was being decorated for Mahomet’s birthday which was on the morrow.   Numerous large marquies had been erected around a square in which some kind of performance was to take place & the marquees were beautifully fitted up with carpets & chairs arranged along the walls - most of them being fine plush cushioned chairs - & hundreds of lamps gaily decorated were hanging from the roofs.  The natives were hard at work decorating for the next day.   After this we at last came to the Tombs of the Khalifs or City of the Dead where there were numbers of comparatively large buildings stretching along both sides of the road for some mile or two which enclosed the remains of the old Khalifs. They are in fairly good repair & as in most cases constitute mosques as does almost every building which surrounds the dead.   Of course they are not used now. A great deal of excavation has been done here & gruesome remains frequently presented themselves, in one pile there were dozens of skulls.   We had quite a pleasant afternoon & returned with a good appetite. Today I received a parcel from Ern & Alice & a p Sydney Mail also, the former containing some edibles which I would have simply gloried in if I had received them at Gallipoli where every man who received a parcel was the envy of the rest though they were always shared. I must write & thank him for them.  By the way, I went to the native bazaar the other day
to get some things which I have long intended to send. I had quite an enjoyable afternoon bargaining - I think I told you I got some scent, then I indulged in some brassware - one single vase & a smaller pair, then a blouse length, & a silk shawl.   Please take your pick & then send one of the others to the four other three different families.   I got something for the womenfolk only as I think they like things better than the men.   I thought probably some of the brass work would suit you best & I thought the smaller pair, & then the blouse length would gladden Mab's heart, & probably Linda would agree with the shawl & Alice the single vase.   But you please yourself.   I hope they arrive safely they are being sent by registered post, the brassowork is being sent by the dealer & I am sending the silks tomorrow.   Hope you will like them, they will be delayed by customs probably but we  are exempted I believe but don't be alarmed if they don't arrive for a week or two after the letter.   Much love to all from Your loving son, Wilf. I hope you are well & not worrying my dear.
