Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 16 February 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


9th L.H Regt. Heliopolis, 16. 2. 1916.
 My dear mother, I have just heard that a mail is leaving tomorrow & I must send you a few lines though my last letter will probably not have left yet. I received two of your letters at No 1 A.G.H. on enquiry there for mail. They were dated Jan 7th  & Dec 31st. If you had addressed them to this regiment or ambulance they would have found me much easier, you need never have any scruples about addressing a letter to the regiment even without any further particulars as the military post office always knows where the regiment is. The best address is 9th Light Horse Regiment, 3rd Light Horse Brigade, Egypt, or if we moved from Egypt merely  address it to the Regiment & Brigade as above  & it will always find us. It is just as  well to add the letters A.I.F. also though  that is not absolutely necessary. You misunderstood  my cable as regards address - when I said address  Ambulance Egypt, I meant 3rd L.H.F. Amb. Egypt, however, the letter thus addressed found me which is rather a tribute to the postal officials as there are so many ambulances in Egypt. Was glad to hear that you were well & that Mab will probably be with you at the present time & do hope that you will have a trip away yourself soon. It is just about a year since we were together in Sydney - may we be together there again before another year is my great desire I commenced to write to you early tonight but was interrupted & have not much time now as reveille goes tomorrow at 4.30 a.m. for the Brigade is going for a route march (on horseback) to the Barage tomorrow 28 23 miles away & camping out at night returning next day. It is now after nine o'clock but I must try & send you some word. I went into Cairo to church on Sunday & spent the evening with the Bryans. Mr Bryans brother from Alexandria was there also & another gentleman & his wife. They were all Welsh as usual & made frequent references to parts of Wales & spoke a few Welsh sentences. Except for that I have been out little, but just remember, that I went to No TTT Aust. Gen. Hospital to dinner on Saturday night with Sister Demestre who was at Prince Alfred Hospital. She was one of the oldest sisters there & one of the most unpopular but she has rather improved out here. Wesley & I were to go & dine with Sister Lowe who was assistant matron at Prince Alfred but she had been moved from No TTT A.G.H before the night arrived & Sister Demestre insisted on us going to dine with her. Wesley however had an attack of influenza & I was left to face the music alone. There were thousands of Sisters there or so it appeared but I was not very alarmed & spent rather an interesting time. Several other Prince Alfred girls were there & Sister Demestre had the decency to bring along something younger in the nurse line to talk to which was pleasant of her. I have now a new nag to ride, a fine ∧bay pony which reminds me of Charley he is such a pet, loves sugar & such like items. He is quiet & a fine hack & a good substantial pony, just the thing for a doc's horse. I still have the other old one too & the groom rides him. But I had better close & trot off to bed my dear with best love to all the family & mother's usual share from Your loving son, Wilf. 
