Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 6 September 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Syrian Desert
Nationality: Australian

Text:

06. 09. 1916.  My dear mother,  Your welcome letter of July 19th  came to hand this morning - I think it was  a straggler from the last mail as I received  one from you only a few days ago. I am   very pleased indeed that you received  the vases & like them - I think it  would be very much better if you  kept the pair yourself - I wanted you  to have them, then everyone would be fixed   up Also Linda would have a pair & Alice  another & Mab the tray which I  hope she will like. Please do not  think of suggesting payment for them -  it is Wilfred's gift to mother & he would  like to give her a lot more. Was awfully  sorry to hear that father had had an  attack of gastroenteritis or whatever it was,  I wished I were there when reading your  letter & you were saying you had jumped  up several times - we often have similar  complaints in the military & I would have  liked to help you fix him up. Glad to hear he was better & all fear of  appendicitis removed - it would certainly  be abominably awkward to get anything of  that kind in Candelo necessitating immediate  operation. Fancy Edgar Holtzhanzar  starting business on his own - very foolish  I think at present as his name will  be sure to go against him & with money  as tight as it is during the war, he will   have a hard time.  Next morning.  Had to close up temporarily as tea came along. I am now quite  settled down at the Ambulance & comfortable. I brought my  batman - Smith - with me as he has been with X me for 12 months  now almost, he is a very good boy & looks after me well.  I had a little palm leaf humpy built the first day & roofed  over with waterproof sheets. I have a hospital mattress to  sleep on & it feels very comfy after lying on sand covered  with a waterproof sheet for so long. x Wesley is almost  well now & is in one of the hospitals & expects to move  off to France in a few days - lucky dog. We are  not very busy here at present as only a few sick  come in from the Regiments each day & the less  serious cases are kept here & treated & those more  serious sent on to the Base. Then there is a certain  amount of work to be done in keeping the Ambulance  in working order but this is not excessive. I  have been out for rides several time since I came  here but these are not very interesting as the desert is very similar everywhere & of course  heavy to ride over. "Hods" are very numerous  just about here in fact within a three mile  radius there are about seven or eight, each  containing a large number of date palms, the  area covered generally being about ½ an acre.  We sometimes ride along to one just to  collect & eat the ripe dates on the trees,  as all the palms just now are laden  with huge bunches of dates, for the most   part unripe, but a certain number ripen  each day & these we seek. They are very  nice too when properly ripe & black.  There are two varieties here, the usual one being  greenish or brownish when unripe & black  when ripe & the other variety yellow. I  have visited my old Regiment a couple of  times & had afternoon tea with them &  one day went with the Colonel from here  to Brigade headquarters & had quite  a nice cup of tea & sweet biscuits  just out from Port Said. Did I ever  tell you of the road which the Turks made  in order to drag their heavy guns over the  desert? They cut down innumerable palm  branches & placed them in line along the sand & these when covered with a superficial layer of sand  made quite a firm road over which they dragged their  heavy 8.2 howitzars with mules or camels. The  rumor had it that they were able to be taken divided  into 3 pieces & dragged by 12 mules in carts but  I cannot say that is true or not. They  must have suffered terribly on their return trip, as  we drove them on to a waterless tract where they would   have to travel about 20 miles without water & walking  as they were in this heat it must have been terrible  especially after suffering a severe defeat. I had  a letter from Walker with your last - he is  doing fairly well in Tasmania, also Auntie Lily  who writes some very nice letters. I'm x coming  quite to know the English branches of the family  which seems strange after never previously  corresponding. Must close my dear as the  mail is leaving soon & lunch coming on   - have had several interruptions during  writing of this. Hope father is OK & you  not knocked up after those bad nights.  Best love to all not forgetting  mother extra bit from  Her loving son  Wilf.  Am writing to Mab next mail I hope, had a  letter from her last week.
