Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 30 October 1915
Regiment: 9th Light Horse regiment
Location: Anzac Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:

9th Light Horse Regiment Anzac 30.10.1915.     My dear mother, It is Sunday again - another week has flown past, leaving me, I am thankful to say, in good health & spirits. At the beginning of  last week the weather became very cold as the wind changed round to the North & here that is the direction of the cold winds as they come from the Balkan mountains. Thar   We were wearing overcoats & wrapping ourselves up as much as possible for about three days when suddenly the  wind veered round to the South & the weather became beautiful once again, almost too warm in the middle of the day. The seasons & weather changes here appear to follow quite a regular course, as we have been issued with an account of the weather changes here published in an English paper & embracing the whole season & up till the present it has been absolutely correct. According to it November is to be a beautiful month quite warm & calm.
There are rumors that this Brigade may have a rest shortly as it has been here since the almost the commencement of hostilities & if so it will probably go to the Island of Lemnos which will doubtless be a very quiet holiday for the men. There is no church service up here again today & I quite miss it, Sunday appears very much as another day without it turning to rough weather this week fresh meat & bread could not be bought over to us & we  had resort to the bully beef & biscuits which formed the men's food here for so long & we did not rd relish the change, as the biscuits are very hard & tasteless & tinned meat none too palatable. So we were very pleased when meat & bread turned up again today & it makes one think under what infinitely better conditions we are living here now than when the men first came here. Charley Wesley paid me a visit one afternoon this week & I managed to provide him with some tea, hot toast & butter, which my batman brings me always in the afternoons (the butter having been bought at a canteen at Imbros Island ) - tinned Irish butter). I also dropped in to see him ys one afternoon, & yesterday I called for him & we went round to see the 5th Field Ambulance people in Shrapnel Gully as they are old friends, Chapman who was in my year & Frizell a year or two before were there & we had tea & quite a pleasant chat. I also took some snapshots yesterday at different points, - they should be interesting if they turn out well. Military matters on the Peninsula have been fairly quiet during the week there is the daily shelling of different points & at night it grows lively at various points such as cl Hill 60 & Walkers Ridge where the opposing trenches are close to each other & there is an intermittent rifle & machine gun fire varied by the louder explosions of bombs. There are different matters of minor military importance going on always of course & of which I am not permitted to speak but on the whole we are just at present remaining content with what we have. The Turks do not shell very much either - they must surely be short of ammunition, one morning last week however they grew lively & there was a short quick bombardment of various points, causing a lot of noise but doing little damage. The sunsets here are glorious, as we overlook the ocean with its shipping, with the Islands in the background behind which the sun sets &   lights up with it's glow the sea, clouds  islands & land & the various tints  are beautiful. Did I tell you  that by chance the other day  I happened to be speaking to  a Private coming along the   road, & he turned out to be  a fellow named Cobb with whom  I went to school at Scots College.  It is remarkable how one meets  people. I have not received any mails  over here - could not expect to do so  yet as I explained in my last  but am looking forward to  next week or the week after that.  I have quite an easy time here,  am wakened about 7 a.m. by  my batman who brings me some  cocoa then he brings some shaving  & hot washing water about 7.30am  & I rise, breakfast at 8a.m. sick parade takes place at  8.45 a.m. & I generally finish  in about one hour, then I have  my men here to do some dressings  and go round on a Sanitary inspection  Come back about eleven oclock  & have a look at any bad cases for  dressing, then have a smoke &   read till lunch. Am free then till  from 4.45 unless any men are  wounded as they seldom are just  at present but I like to be about  in case anybody is hurt so only go  out once in two or three days visiting.  Then I have afternoon sick parade  & dinner afterwards, & so the   days pass by.  I hope that all  my distant loved ones are well  & not worrying unnecessarily for  the absent one. Take care of   yourself mum, go out plenty  Best of love to all the family  with mother's usual share  from her loving son,  W. Evans Capt.   Wilf 
