Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 1 January 1918
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:



1.1.1918  My dear mother, Lately, it always seems my fate to write you on a wet day - it was Xmas day last time & pouring like fun & now it's New Years Day & doing likewise. Fortunately we had a few fine days between times, but it commenced again this morning & has been raining fairly well ever since & tomorrow we move camp which is a disgusting thing in wet weather. Since I last wrote to you we haven't done very much, though we moved our line forward a mile or two in conjunction with a big attack on the right which gave the Turks a bad knock again They launched an attack on Jerusalem apparently just as we were going to attack them & our attack  caught them in flank while they were throwing themselves away on our people in their front who gave them beans I believe. Result Turkey has gone back a few more miles & has lost some  good positions. Just at present our people here seem to do just what they like with him & I think his soldiers are getting a bit fed up with things in general & no wonder. The country we advanced over was rougher than ever  one would think it impassable from looking at it & so it is unless one winds about in the valleys & gradually reaches one's objective by a circuitous route.  I had a letter this week from Mrs Job & one from Mrs  Buchanan - mother of a fellow who was in my  year & who was in Cairo for a short period a  couple of years ago - congratulating me on my  promotion, said she saw my photo in the  Sydney Mail, however it got there I can't  imagine. I wonder how you are getting on  about this moving of yours & your settling down  somewhere else. It must be very difficult indeed  for you at present & I wish I could be of some  use, but can't very well be so, away over here.  I was very sorry indeed to read of D Hunt's death  what a blow it must have been to his mother  & sister, he seemed to be the only boy in the family.  I must tell you  of a joke against one of our  officers who went to Jerusalem - you know  that when operations are on & generally for some   time afterwards we live largely on 'bully beef' that  is tinned meat & biscuits - big hard ones.  Well this officer went to Jerusalem & stayed  for lunch at the German Hotel Fast where we had so much difficulty in obtaining food He  greatly admired the luxuriousness of the place  with fine comfortable chairs & sat himself down  in the beautiful dining room to a table covered  with a splendid white damask cloth, with good  cutlery, flowers in vases etc. While waiting for  his food he sat back with a contented sigh  thinking how good it was, & what a treat to  have a change from "bully & biscuits".  Eventually the waiter came along with a silver tray  & shiny dish cover over a plate & with a veritable  snort of satisfaction the officer lifted the cover &  discovered bully beef!!!  It is truly the Hotel Fast at present  No more news this time I fear mother my dear  so much close with best of love & an extra hug  for mother from  Her loving son  Wilf
 