Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 18 January 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Camp Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


9th Light Horse Regiment, Racecourse Camp, Heliopolis, 18.1.1916.  My dear mother, Before I say any more I think it would be as well for you to address my letters direct to the Regiment now, although I get them fairly well from the Ambulance. One by one they are turning up & I think I have received practically all your letters now, a stray bundle of 9 or 10 letters came for mee yesterday dated September a couple of yours among them. I have also received three "Life' s" some papers from John & Em. Your last letters were quite recent - Dec. 9th. it is so good to get one's mail decently again. In one of your letters you said that you had received the scent & liked it, so I sent you some more & if you wish you may give Mrs Bloomfield one of the bottles as she seemed fond of it. I was very distressed on reading your letters to find that you were worrying so much about me & really I can't wonder for I quite realize how hard it is for you at home, not knowing where we are or what we are doing, it is infinitely worse for you than for us. But, my dear, I like A cannot turn my back on my duty however much my inclinations are to do so & if every medical man did two months or so at the front & bolted what would the poor lads who are sick & wounded do? I think there is no doubt where my place is or should be at present & now that we are away from Anzac I hope you will be more content, & I'm sure that all will be well & I will be brought safely back to you. I am rather rushed this week with my letter as I had set apart last night for writing it & when I came in at dinner time & found a wire waiting for me from Cousin Gwen saying that she was in Cairo staying at a Hotel. So I went in when dinner was finished & found her eventually with five or six nurses on a flying trip to Cairo. She had arranged to go & see the Davies Bryans who have a big store here & at Alexandria & are Welsh & know all the Evans in England. They are exceedingly nice people & it felt quite strange being in a drawing room again.  But my dear I have to go to the dentist now I was interrupted in the middle of this by a visit from Finlay who was our wireless operator on the Karoola & is on a flying trip here & stayed to lunch. I weighed today & am 12 stone two lbs was never more than 11 st, 6 lbs before. I will try & catch the mail with a letter containing further news if possible but must go now to dentist & will post this so as to be quite sure. Love all in haste from Your loving son,  Wilf.