Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 3 December 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


3. 12. 1916. My dear mother, It is only a few days since I last wrote but it is Sunday evening & just in order to get back to the regular day again I must send you a few lines. The billy arrived on the day after I last wrote & the cake was a beauty, we have all appreciated it - have been using it for afternoon tea. I hardly liked breaking into it at all as it reminded me so much of you but the smell & general appearance soon made havoc with sentiment & it did not remain very long unbroken. The Lucy Hinton also is splendid, just what I wanted & will keep me in smokes for quite a time - don't worry about me smoking too much mother mine, I don't do that but find a pipe great consolation in the wilderness. I took the billy out on an expedition the very day after it arrived - I still possess the other but this was a little smaller & only two of us went out & it was a better size for the smaller number. Another mail has arrived since then with a letter from you written after your return from Bega - not fancy Dr Sharp indulging in a fourth kiddy, good luck to him, we want them all now. Which Miss Ritchie was the it you mentioned - the one who used to visit Mrs Sharp 
at Candelo or a younger one who was at school at that time? Very kind of her to remember me at any rate. The expedition we went to a couple of days ago was to some hills some distance from here where it was thought the Turks might be & a small party from the Brigade went out to reconnoitre The Colonel & I went from here & took a few bearers & a couple of slegd sledges for wounded as the country was too rough even for our sandcarts The first few miles were dreadful - steep sandridges  one following the other with very soft sand everywhere but it improved as we went along & became quite firm as we approached some hills. We took up our position on top of one of these - more than 1000 feet high & the scouts went on further. We had a magnificent view from there of the whole of the country round here with the sea in the distance & on the other side high ranges of hills projecting sheer out of the desert Most of these are of solid rock & very precipitous in nature & reaching to a height of over 2000 feet & as you may imagine  
offer fairly good protection for the lurking  Bedouin or Turk. Our scouts in their exploration  were fired on by some men in the distance & returned  it with interest but no one was hit. We could  see with the aid of glasses some dark figures  clambering over one of the passes in the  distant hills  presumably Turks alarmed at  the approach of our men. We left here at  8.a.m. in the morning & had a good lunch on  the top of the hill after boiling the billy or rather  having it boiled for us & returned in the dusk  The colonel went on further with some others just  to view the country & I was left in charge of the  sledges. The camp here is rather hard to find & there  are absolutely no landmarks so the task is no  easy one even with a compass in the dark, especially  as detours must be made in the sand dunes. I  adopted the expedient of following the tracks made  by the sledges & had no difficulty at all though we were  a couple of hours in the darkness. The colonel who  was not along the same track missed the camp  by a few hundred yards & did not get in for  some time afterwards. We are fairly comfortably  installed here now but never know when we will  move, that depending on the attitude of Abdul the  Turk & on our own headquarters staff. I am  getting abominably fat again during the winter 
as we don't take much exercise -  walking  in heavy sand being a very uninteresting  occupation. I had a letter from Harry & Linda  this week, must reply to it shortly. We had  church parade this morning - can't say I  enjoyed it much - we have a new young  Church of England clergyman from Ireland  who was made a prisoner by the rebels  for a week during the riots in Dublin. But  the singing is very poor in the open air, the men  are marched up & don't put much vim  into things as they usually don't want to go  so the service is a rather luke warm affair  all through. No more news this time so must close with very best of love from  Your loving son  Wilf.