Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 2 March 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:

2. 3. 1916 My dear mother, Since I last wrote you I have changed my abode as I informed you we were intending to do in my last letter. We have been so unsettled during the change that I have not written before this week & it is now Thursday. The Censorship here is very strict & we are told not to put the name of the unit on the top of the letter, though I am with the same regiment & if you continue to address my letters to that regiment c/o Intermediate Base, Egypt they will always find me, with a little luck! I did quite a lot of shopping before coming away as there are always quite a number of little things to get before leaving on these jaunts & I generally find myself fairly well supplied with things which other people do not possess when we settle down. We have two hurricane lamps in our A.M.C. things & no-one else has a lamp of any kind, & I seem to possess the only books in camp. I brought two or three of Kingsleys with me & some Dickens & Victor Hugo. I had a fairly busy time also purchasing enamel ware for the mess which took a good deal of time & I spent several afternoons in town visiting Groppi's for afternoon tea on each occasion as they always give one something nice, their coffee is particularly good. The cakes are only ½ piastre (1 ¼d) each) & the tea or 
coffee costs 2 piastres (5d).  Our regiment came down by different trains most of them leaving somewhere in the middle of the night or early morning. The tents were struck & packed the previous day & all the baggage put on wagons preparatory for leaving. The train I was to leave in was timed to go about 8 o'clock in the morning but was to come in at 6 o'clock for loading. The troops were to leave camp at 4.30 a.m. & march down though it was only about a mile away. Said I to myself, if I go at that time & my sleeping bag & blankets are packed up the previous day I'll have very little sleep, but why should I not sleep. So I bethought myself & suggested to the O.C. (commanding officer) that I it was not necessary for me to march out with the troops & suggested that I might keep my sleeping bag & blankets & not put them on with the others, sleep all night & then run down to the station in a motor car about seven o'clock in the morning. He consented & so while all the others had practically no sleep, I with the veterinary officer slept all night breakfasted early in the morning & then went comfortably to the railway. We had a good run down in the train & then commenced work 
pitching camp. Our tent was up before nightfall & I was fixed up quite well here with the veterinary officer Captain Worthington. We have a fresh spot in the desert to camp in, & the sand here is fine & soft, unfortunately blows about easily. Today there is a fine wind storm & you can imagine what it is like, the Sharp St Corner in Cooma was a green field compared to it. The sand penetrates almost everywhere, ears eyes mouth clothes. I can't tell you much about the place but we are quite close to a certain strip of salt water which runs through the sand here & on which ships go e & big ships at that. I had a dip there yesterday for the sake of cleanliness. It is funny to watch the boys running down when a ship is signalled to see it pass. I made one myself yesterday & raced down to see a huge liner gliding by. Bob Taylor who was at Prince Alfred with us is in a Field Ambulance not far away & he came to see us yesterday & we returned his call today & in doing so walked into Asia which sounds quite a lot but in reality it isn't far from here to that continent.
I am still Mess Secretary & am now running the mess with our own batmen & cook & acting as chief steward myself. There is a grocery canteen not far away & I have become a sort of housewife ordering so many b bottles of pickles & pounds of biscuits every day or so. All the boys are pleased with their tucker so far which is a good thing. It's bedtime so must conclude with best love to all & your own you usual share from Your loving son, Wilf.
 There is no fighting or indication of  it here so don't worry my dear. 