Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 22 March 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


9th LH. Regt., 22.3.1916. My dear mother, Since I last wrote you I am pleased to say that I have received three of your letters readdressed from the Intermediate Base & you may guess how pleased I was to receive them after so long an interval. So Mab has been with you & I can well imagine how glad you would be to see each other. We continue to lead our rather monotonous existence here, & my health continues good & my proportions to increase Those trousers which I had made in Sydney before leaving find the task of encircling my slender waist almost impossible & the top buttons are in imminent danger of flying off & causing serious bodily harm to any person or persons within range. Your letters showed the state of your feelings when you heard I was ill & how much I regretted not cabling earlier which I certainly would have done had I thought  the authorities would send on such a trifling illness.  It was very fortunate that I asked if there were any letters for me or the cable might have lain at the hospital for a week or two as I had directed that any letter for me there should be left till called for.
I went over to see Wesley last week in the midst of a blinding dust storm & Charles had rather a long face - he is not very fond of this part of the country. However we managed to cheer each other up & he came over here to dinner on Sunday but the trip rather tired his horse as it is about eight miles over sand so I'm afraid we won't see each other very often here. I do my little trip each day to see the sick in different places & carry with me a small haversack with a number of requisites with which I manage to treat quite a number of ailments - it is really surprising what one can carry in a small space. This is a very sleepy climate, after lunch one feels as if it is almost impossible to keep awake & I generally yield to the feeling & have a doze or smoke. I had a small parcel today from Mrs Job containing some socks a couple of hankys, balaclava cap & writing paper & envelopes.  I must write & thank her - it has been very much delayed as all parcels are, as she wrote me about a month ago saying she had posted it, or rather the letter reached me a month ago. The Church of England padrė paid us a visit last Sunday & I fixed him up some sleeping accommodation in my tent in the form of an ambulance stretcher & he brought his own blankets. He held Church service in the afternoon but had forgotten to bring hymn sheets so the singing was rather limited. He is a very decent fellow Archdeacon Collick of Koolgardie. We have had an addition amoun to our ranks recently - I mentioned him in my last letter - Jacques the machine gun officer. His father is in Stephen Jaques & Stephen sollicitors in Sydney with whom father may be acquainted. We have also had a visit from a couple of generals this week who messed with us at lunch on consequetive days, generals in this country are almost as common as starlings in Candelo. Strange to say that in the same bunch of letters as that one of yours which contained a clipping concerning the death of Arthur Oakes I had a letter from the latter himself written when he was at Gallipoli in the trenches & it had been following 
me about ever since. I did not think when I commenced writing that I should have been able to fill one page & am congratulating myself on doing as much as this for I can tell you nothing my dear & there would be little to tell if I could so will close with best love to all & a double share to mother from Her Loving son, Wilf.