
Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 12 December 1918
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Tripoli 
Nationality: Australian

Text:

Tripoli, 5.12.1918 (Syrien)
 My dear mother, No less than five letters arrived from you this mail & of course I was delighted. You spoke of your pleasure to hear that I am coming home & I only hope that you will not he too disappointed at not my not being with you for Xmas. I hope however to spend Xmas on the water with any luck at all. I told you in my last, that I had seen Col Downes about it or rather written to him & that he has asked permission to send me on transport duty at an early date, probably the next hospital transport which leaves. I have had a couple of letters from Jack lately & he seemed to be well & having a good time near Jerusalem. I am very glad that he, like myself, was lucky enough to dodge malaria when so many others around us developed the disease, as it is rather a nuisance in after life to have recurring attacks of fever. Just at present I am detached from Division for a few days to one of the Ambulances - the 4th this time. All the medicos in the Ambulance practically had been ill & the man in charge was away at Cairo buying Xmas things for the men. At the time we could send no one else to the Ambulance so I came over for a few days to take charge until the real C.O. returned from Cairo. It is rather an enjoyeable change running a unit again but I expect to be back with Divisional Headquarters again within a few days & after that hope to receive my marching orders to Australia. You understand I suppose that one of the chief causes of my delay in coming home was the last operation on this front, when I could hardly be spared. We have had more rain again today, it commenced last night or rather in the early hours of the morning & my tent came down with a rush just as I had lit a lamp and struggled into my boots & overcoat. So I was compelled to crawl out from the collapsed tent into the downpour & the next thing I saw was another collapsed tent next door, which had sheltered two new officers who had only arrived on the previous day & had up till then thought campaigning quite a fine life. I stood in the rain grinning - couldn't help it & then dodged down to see how the patients were faring. One big marquee came down & the men had to be hauled from under it & put in another, another sick officer's tent was on the verge of collapsing when I with the aid of an orderly managed to save it just in time. Meantime I  was drenched to the skin, but fortunately day was breaking & I woke my orderly & rescued some clothes from under the tent & succeeded in finding a dry shirt & pair of trousers & a cardigan jacket. In these I am now attired & am gaily writing to you in the mess tent which fortunately survived the storm, with a little help from me in the matter of driving in tent pegs. I was sorry my dear to hear that indigestion is still worrying you & hope that you will go & consult someone if it continues to do so, such as Rennie or Mills. Now that the war is practically finished we are acting here as the army of occupation to keep order in the country. Our chief work is trying to provide amusements for the men & we are giving them football matches, touring parties to the old ruins at Baalbek, swimming parties to the sea & in addition educational schemes are being commenced to try & give men some opportunity of picking up trades before their return. The trouble is that the horses take up so much of the men's time & attention that they do not have too much spare for other things. Since I came here I've been quite busy as there is quite a lot to do in running even a unit like an Ambulance. Something or other is always cropping up to do. I'm keeping fit & well & am only anxious to go home now. Lunch is here so I must say goodbye with lots of love from Your loving son Wilf 