Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 20 September 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Camp Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


20. 9. 1916.  My dear mother,  Since last writing my usual weekly  letter we have had another little "stunt" which has  I suppose been duly reported in the papers. The Turks  have an advanced post at the place called Bir-el-Mazar  (you will remember that "Bir" means a well) which is  about 20 miles west of El Arish that is nearer to us.  Our object was to make a reconnaissance in force  to ascertain the numbers there & if they were not in  very great strength to try & take the place, but  by no means to be involved in a serious action.  I cannot tell you our exact position here but we  left here at midnight last Friday & travelled to a  hod called Salmana which is the last of place  where good water can be obtained. There we rested  all day but unfortunately could not sleep much  as too much movement was going on. The  sight when we moved off the previous night was  the most picturesque one I have seen, as it was  bright moonlight & column after column of  mounted men could be seen moving silently off in  away followed by the gun teams & their business  like burden & then the ambulance with its sand   carts & camel stretchers for the wounded, the  red cross on it's white background showing up clearly  in the moonlight I was in charge of the camel convoy which consisted  of certain stretchers arranged one on each side of a  camel for lying down cases & seats similarly  arranged for sitting up cases. Then we had  a certain number of medical baggage &  water for wounded. We fared very well in the  hod next day as we had brought tinned fruit  with us & our cook made good tea. In addition  we had brought watermelons as the Bedouins  in the region had sown acres & acres of  them in the lowlying desert near the sea  & they are lying about in profusion so the  old saying that the desert shall blossom  as the rose is partly true already.  We were disturbed in our afternoon rest by  the appearance of a hostile plane which  hovered over us for a while & we thought he  would drop bombs but instead he turned  his machine gun on us although he was  at great height & by an unlucky chance  hit one of the men who was watering horses.  The poor fellow died soon afterwards & was  buried in a couple of hours & I think the  insecure tenure of life was never so brought  home to me as then for that poor fellow  alive & well was next in a couple of hours  later dead & buried just by an unlucky  shot as the aeroplane could not possibly
expect to aim straight from such a height  & travelling so quickly. That night we moved   off at dusk & followed that old caravan  route I have described to you.  We had to  cover 22 waterless miles attack the place &  return next day to the abovementioned hod.  Travelling in a considerable body of troups even  mounted is very slow work & 3 miles an hour is  a good average pace & when going into  enemy country there are numerous inevitable  halts. My camel convoy was very slow -  camels always are & we dropped behind  the main column of necessity & followed  in their tracks. It was a dreadfully  weary march as we had been without sleep  the previous night & towards 3a.m. we  almost slept on our horses. The old track  ran frequently between sand dunes some hundred  feet in height & the sand was often very soft  but in parts where it was lowlying it was  moist encrusted with salt from sea  filtration I presume & one stretch of a   couple of miles was as hard as a  macadamised road & so delighted were  we to feel firm ground again that we  got off & walked practically the whole  of that distance.  We arrived at our objective  next morning & the dispositions of the force were
made so as to surround the place almost on   three sides. A Turkish camel patrol was  surprised & captured asleep on their posts  by one of the regiments. They were fine big chaps  & looked fat & well & were by no means  distressed by the fact that they were prisoners.  They were dressed in a brownish green uniform  with gay colored caps & were mounted on  good camels. A few shots were fired soon  after dawn & continued intermittently for some  time when our artillery came into play & did  some very effective work. I left the camels  & went forward with Major White of the  Ambulance to our sand carts in the   rear of the firing line & we viewed the  village from a hill. Everything was very  quiet however & no serious attack was  in progress. One of our aeroplanes came  over very low down in spite of the fact  that their anti air craft gun fired shot  after shot at here & she continued   flying about unconcernedly over  the enemy's position round with the air  round her full of the white & black puffs   of shrapnel. Soon afterwards word came  to say that no serious attack was to  be made as the enemy was strongly  posted & it would be too costly so we 
gradually withdrew. We had a spell  for lunch & made tea & then continued   our way homewards arriving at our old   hod at 8p.m., spent the night there &   came on here at 4.30a.m, next day  very tired & very thirsty but glad to be  back in our little humpies again.  The casualties were very slight & we brought  back about 30 prisoners I believe. Three  Turkish sergeants came in next day  who were tired of soldiering under German  domination & one of them said that if he  were allowed to go back he could bring  along his whole company, but I'm afraid  he couldn't be trusted that far. I sincerely   hope your health has improved & father's  also - I wish I could get home & see  you again as it is well over a year  since I left but I'm afraid there is   little chance just yet, but let us hope  that the war will not last very much  longer. One grows very tired of soldiering  at times & longs for the old civilian life  with it's work & it's pleasures & we all  long for it's speedy return. Everything  seems to be going very well just now.  But I must close as the Colonel wants  me to go for a stroll with him to get a 
few ripe dates from one of the hods  near by - wish you could have one.  Best of love to all & a double   share to mother from  Her loving son  Wilf.