Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 6 August 1918
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: France
Nationality: Australian

Text:



6.8.1918 My dear mother, Here I am again starting another letter to you but this time I fear without any news at all to tell you. We are still in the same spot in the valley & have had rather a sweltering week, but it has cooled off today a good deal. I have been kept fairly busy with my mosquito work to do & various other tasks in the office & so on. I started from here one morning at six oclock with Parkes from our Sanitary Section in a Ford motor car to visit the farthest portion of our line. We arranged for horses to meet us at a point beyond which the car would not go, & then rode on several miles. I think that portion of our line is the most desolate & hottest in the whole valley. A gradual descent from here leads into the fresh water stream of the Aujah which is quite a beautiful stream of fresh water though it's banks are now desolate & deep in dust from military traffic. Beyond this there is another brackish stream called the Mellabah of which we hold one portion & the Turks another. Mosquitos breed in both the Auja & Mellabah but we have cleared them out pretty well now in our part of the stream, but the portion of the Mellabah held by the Turks is still very bad apparently & mosquitos come down to us from there. Well we went on to our furthest posts as we must do our mosquito work as far forward as possible to protect the men in the first line. While we were in one of these posts there was great excitement a Turkish patrol was sighted & our people opened fire on them with great pleasure, as they are always looking for a little sport. They got their machine guns ready & rifles & while doing so I had a look at one of the Turks through a telescope sitting up on the skyline with his rifle in his hand. Then they all opened fire & it was funny to watch the Turks running like rabbits for cover I think the range was rather great & they weren't very much harmed but everyone was pleased so why worry? We then inspected our mosquito area & came back to the fresh water at the Auja where we boiled our billy & had lunch. It was beastly hot coming down the gullies & we appreciated our tea very much. We expect another Australian mail in tomorrow & I am anxiously looking for letters from you as I want to know if my letters have reached you safely & how you are, as you didn't seem very weIl when you last wrote. I must come along & buck you up some of these days - Am just waiting a favorable chance to apply. The news from France lately seems very good indeed & we are all immensely pleased about it, particularly when it seemed so critical a little while ago. I'm trying my best to think of some more news to tell you & don't think I can. Oh! did I tell you of the swimming pool in the Jordan, a most remarkable place, some of our people camped near there whom I visited one day have a spring board erected to dive from & then one can go into a kind of whirl pool caused by a bend in the river which takes one up stream for about twenty yards & then one swims out into the main current which is very rapid & whirls one down at a great rate for about 50 yards & then with a few strokes to one side, one gets into another current which brings one back to the starting point. Very nice indeed on a hot afternoon but rather far away from here. No more news this time mother mine. Cheer up, & don't be down hearted, we've got the Germans cold now & we all hope to be home before 'so very' long, with lots of love & a big hug from Your loving son, Wilf.