
Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 19 June 1915
Location: Heliopolis Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:

Note address→ 1st Aust. General Hospital,  Heliopolis, Egypt  July 19th, 1915. 
 My dear mother,  We have just arrived  here last night & are told that a mail  leaves today so I am scribbling you some  news now. I believe that our letters will  be censored in Sydney before reaching you  therefore I conclude that I must confine  my remarks to generalities leaving out  anything prejudicial. My last letter was   sent from Aden & since then which is  about a week ago we have passed through   that much dreaded stretch of water _  the Red Sea. To my great surprise &  pleasure it was not nearly as hot as  I had anticipated as we had a good  head wind all the way along & we could  generally find some cool spot, though  the first two days were certainly much  hotter than any weather I had  previously experienced. I found the  trip up the Red Sea much more interesting  than that over the Indian Ocean as we
were constantly passing ships of all kinds  & the numerous islands & glimpses of shore  all caught our attention.  The islands  are as you will remember very rough &  craggy without vestige of any living  thing except an occasional lighthouse.  I have only a few minutes to finish this  letter so will not be able to f give you  a full account but will postpone that  till later. We reach Suez during the  night but all remained up till we  dropped anchor, playing larks &  romping round & when at last I  did go to bed I was pulled out   of my hammock several times so  we had quite a night of it. I had  slept during the previous afternoon in  anticipation fortunately, I slept out  on deck, as almost everyone did  as soon as we reached the hot climate  in a hammock & found it very  pleasant, & in addition to this have  not shaved my upper lip for about  three weeks & have a young silky  moustache which however has annoyed  me today by getting into my soup  & tea & as I object to carry about  an advertisement of the menu 
on my upper lip I intend to shave it off  presently. We remained all the following  day in Suez on board the ship  & were boarded by numerous  Customs officials naval officers  etc so on while waiting. There were  numerous other boats lying in the  harbor including a cruiser or two  which made matters quite interesting  I have no time to describe a little  trip I had into the township of Suez  next day & our very interesting trip  by rail from Suez to Cairo - we did  not come through the canal - it was  the most interesting trip I ever had  in my life, will give you a full account  next letter. Suffice to say I am   in excellent health & spirits  am housed in absolutely the finest  hotel in the world I believe now  converted into a hospital, &  will wish send love to all members  of the family & a double share   to your own dear self from  Your ever loving son  Wilf.  Must rush & post this if I can  Hope its not closed.  I cabled from Cairo this morning