Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 27 December 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


27.12.1916  My dear mother, I am commencing a letter tonight though I have no possible chance of finishing it, as I have quite a lot to tell you about this time. You have doubtless read in the papers of our doings during the last few days, we ourselves knew for some time before that something was going to happen but could give you no hint. However we moved out at much shorter notice than we expected - about five days before Xmas, & then we moved forward towards El Arish. We travelled all day, rested for two or three hours in the evening & then moved forward all night. The night march was a wretched one as we halted for a couple of hours at midnight & nearly froze for these winter Egyptian nights are very chilly. We were all very glad when day broke & we advanced on the Turkish position. We knew however that they had  evacuated it a day or two previously & then as expected occupied it without any opposition. The town is situated near the sea & we marched along the beach for two or three miles & it was glorious to be so close to it again though we were rather too tired to enjoy it. I don't think that I have mentioned previously that the coast west of here is peculiar in that a 
large lagoon called the Sabkhat el Bardawil lies between the sea & the land & is separated from the sea by a narrow strip of sand. It's entrance is narrow & in peace time is kept open by a dredge & good fishing is obtained in the lagoon by the Bedouins. During the war the entrance has closed up & the lagoon xx is now partially dry & partially swampy & so cuts off all communication with the sea.  It extends for 30 or 40 miles along the coast & it was along it that we have been progressing since August. I mentioned to  you at different times that we were farther out but could never definitely tell you where we were. Well this lagoon ends before you come to El Arish & here the sea front is open & ships can come in which is as you may realize very important in many ways for armies. The Turks had evidently intended to defend it, as they had many splendid trenches dug along the sea front & had laid  many mines in the sea, which were soon fished out by mine sweepers without any trouble as soon as we occupied the place. The town itself is a collection of mud huts of quite a fair size 200-300 in all & it has a   mosque with quite a decent minaret & a fort  but on the whole is a very wretched place. There  are a few wretched fig trees scattered about it  but the rest is the same old sand of which we   have become so tired.  There are however some  small patches of cultivation in a "wady" or  gully which runs down to the sea east of  the town & bears it's name.  This wady runs  south right away to Magdhaba of which  you have probably heard & of which I shall  have quite a lot to tell you presently.  The  bottom of the wady is quite firm & hard in  contrast to the surrounding sand & it's width  is often as much as a mile.  Sometimes - but  rarely it is flooded.  We spent one night  near the place El Arish but had to rise very early & had  not very many hours rest.  The next evening we  set off again to our great surprise & again  marched all night down the wady towards   Magdhaba, & had a very wretched time as we waited  for about for six or seven weary hours during the night  & were chilled to the bone.  Next morning we sighted  Magdhaba & moved forward to attack it. The idea  was to surround it & bag all the Turks there  so the different Brigades were allotted their positions & moved towards them.  Our artillery   then opened fire & the Turks replied with a mountain  battery they had in the place.  I understand that  they had two battalions & a half of Infantry  about 4 machine guns & 4 mountain guns  & they were strongly entrenched. They had a  splendid water supply from a huge deep  well from which the water was pumped up into a  tremendous concrete reservoir & from this they drew their  supplies. They also had a hospital which was  housed in three good brick buildings well furnished  with drugs & some medical officers in charge.  To continue with the fight - as our Brigade moved  forward into action we followed them to pick  up wounded & had a splendid view of everything.  The country was flat on the whole but there were  a few sand ridges about two miles from the Turkish  position behind which xx our troops were able to take  cover as they advanced, but when they approached  nearer the country became practically flat & offered  almost no cover at all.  Our Brigade moved  forward gradually from ridge to ridge, it's left  wing good slowly enveloping the Turkish  position & finally joining up with the troops  on the other side so that they the Turks were completely surrounded. 
A few managed to bolt away before it was completed  but the great majority were caught. The general  then held a parley & asked them to surrender but  they replied that would fight to the end.  Then followed some of the most magnificent fighting  one could ever see & I should say almost unique  in this war as the whole of the fight could be  seen from where we were & there was a combination  of charges on horseback & foot.  We set up our dressing station on the last of the ridges before  the cou & waited for word of any wounded but surprisingly  few men were hit in the morning or early afternoon.  The general advance commenced about two o'clock & we  saw our boys dismounted with fixed bayonets  advancing over the flat country in skirmishing  order & in this way they worked up to within about  ½ a mile of the Turks.  The Turkish position was  now obscured by the bursting of our shells & the  sand everywhere was sent up in puffs by rifle  bullets.  Soon after this we saw a squadron  of our men, mounted, charging with fixed  bayonets at the gallop right to within about  200 yards of the Turkish position where  they dismounted in the shelter of a small  hollow.  I watched to see if any dropped  but not one fell in spite of the heavy rifle fire directed at them.  Then to their right  there was a veritable inferno, our men were  rushing forward on foot & it looked as if  hardly a man could live so thick were the  patches of sand knocked up by bullets.  There  was to be heard the continuous rattle of  rifle & machine gun fire interrupted by the  boom of the guns & the screeching of the  shells.   On the left our people also had  worked right forward & this was almost  the last I saw of the battle as I received  word of wounded round on the left & took  a couple of sandcarts to collect them  We were engaged picking up a wounded  Turk & some of our own men & putting them on  sledges & sandcarts when suddenly the  firing ceased & on looking round we saw  the Turks had surrendered. One of our  regiments had galloped with fixed  bayonets not only at but over the trenches  & stopped twenty yards behind them & the other 
regiments charged on foot & when they were  within a few yards of the trenches the Turks  surrendered.  The mounted charge was headed  by our own Brigadier General Royston who is a  magnificent soldier & knows no fear.  It was  largely due to his efforts that the day was so  successful. At one stage of the fight he gathered  up all the grooms holding led horses for officers  & men leading packhorses & made them follow  him at the gallop towards the Turks so that  they would think more troop were coming &  machine guns on pack horses. Of course  he did not go right on.  The Turks who  surrendered numbered 1300 & their four mountain  guns were taken, some machine guns, their  Brigadier General, & their hospital with its equipment  & doctors. After the firing ceased I had a terribly  busy time. Hearing that there was a Turkish  hospital in the place I took my sandcarts  with their freight of wounded down there  & sent the carts immediately away for more as  it was growing dark & it is so difficult  to find people in the dark & if the poor beggars fellows  were left out all night it would be terribly severe  for them.  Our orders were to take them back  to a clearing station a few miles away but if we had done so we would never have collected  them all. Only the Colonel & myself were  out with the Ambulance, the others had  stayed behind to fix up a place to receive   the wounded further back. The Colonel then  went off to get rations & other necessaries  from the people at the hospital further back  & I was left to cope with everything. More &  more wounded Turks & Australians were reported  & I sent cart after cart out to get them.  The buildings only had a few mattresses on the floor  & a few quilts for coverings & I had not very  many sandcarts  blankets. However we  managed to cover them all somehow &  by eleven o'clock at night we had about  100 wounded belonging to ourselves & Turks combined  I went round taking each one's name, giving  each one Morphia & looking to each wound.  Most of the wounds had been splendidly  dressed on the field. At first we had trouble  about lights but we fished up two  lanterns & some kerosene.  We borrowed  extra dressings from the Turkish people  & also made the Two Turkish doctors & their two assistants dress their own wounded  & we all worked away together.  I had a  terrible time of it, as I was constantly interrupted  in my work as I went round to see about sending  away a sandcart or some wounded man would  want Morphia water & I had to send one of the four men  whom I had kept back from collecting wounded  away to a well 300 yards away to bring it up  in a bucket we took from the Turks, then one or two  died & I had to arrange the padré to bury  them & so on interminably.  One or two people  haemorrhaged rather freely & I had to stop  these so that I did not know where to look  next.  However I got round them in the end  & everyone had Morphia & a drink & his  wound looked at & by twelve o'clock all  were quiet & most asleep. At about  12.30 the Colonel returned with rations & he  had arranged for medical comforts to  follow as we had nothing to give them next  morning. About 3 a.m. Major Hercus who is  D.A.D.M.S. of the Division (xxxxxxx that is  Deputy Assistant Director of Medical Services) came  along with a convoy of more dressings, beef tea  arrowroot & all sorts of things. by some who had been left behind. (I censored  that myself).  Next morning we for looked round  about 5 a.m. found some potatoes & onions the  Turks had left & some tinned meat & with  these made a stew. We also found two big  tureens to boil water in & our improvised  cook turned out some excellent stew,  tea, beef tea & arrowroot for the wounded  so they all had a good hot drink &  a meal if they could take it. During  the morning we sent out & collected a  few more wounded Turks from different  parts - none of our own had been left out  & then I arranged the cases for transport  back to El Arish. The more serious went on  sandcarts & sledges & the slighter cases  on the sitting or lying down cacolets on camels  & our precious convoy of about 100 wounded  of both sides finally set off about 1.30  in the afternoon. We had four wounded Turkish  officers & two Turkish doctors & then two  assistants on board also. Five miles further  along the road we came to the xxxxx  clearing station where another drink &  biscuits were given to all the wounded & we 
set off again at four o'clock for home  I went  off in charge of the sandcarts which are  faster than the camels but had to stop several  times, once to stop haemorrhage & on other  occasions to give Morphia to some who were  in pain.  We finally arrived at our base at  nearly midnight & I was glad to hand  over my charge to the doctors there & go  to bed as I had been up three nights out  of four & had been working for the last two  days at very high pressure. - How sweet  is leisure now, it is two or three days since I returned  & we are fixing ourselves up comfortably in a  palm grove.  The first day or two after my  return I was kept busy, as I gave a hand  looking after the wounded & then we had to  change camp & only today am I having a  good spell.  The last two or three nights have been cold  & wet & we to were unable to fix up shelter until  last evening but my sleeping bag proved  invaluable & kept me quite warm & dry.  I am looking back now with satisfaction over this  last week, to as I have never before since I joined  the army felt as useful & I think if I had  not done anything at all previously that  night would have made up for all.  So,  my dear, it may be hard for you to have me
away so long from you, but if one has the  opportunity of doing work like that & relieving  the suffering of these fine if men of ours who  have been shattered in their country's service  I think neither you nor I should be dissatisfied  no matter what happens. I'm sure you  could not wish me to be doing anything else &  it should be a partial recompense to you for  all you have done for me to know that  I can be of service out here.  We arrived back on Xmas Eve, had a busy  Xmas day, dined from bully beef & biscuits  no time to cook the turkeys which we still  possess & we can only draw ordinary rations  so far out.  So our Xmas was not such a  success in the matter of feasting but our  victory was better than I eating.  So I will  close with much love to all & a double  share to mother from  Your loving son  Wilf.    I am trying to get a cable away but no mail  seems to be leaving here at present. Will send it as  soon as possible.
