Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 22 October 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Camp Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


22.10.1916. My dear mother. I am once again at the Ambulance &  can sit down at a table & try to write a decent  letter in comparative comfort if I can only think  of sufficient material to write about.  I spent  just a week with the Camel Corps & though the  three officers there were very decent fellows I was  glad to return again to the Ambulance. These  Camel Corps are used to transport our stores & water  & are manned by Egyptians with a few white officers.  You would be astounded to know the immense numbers  of camels required for the supply even of a small  army & that I am unable to give you even an approximate  idea on account of censorship.  The Egyptians work  rather well on the whole but must be kept well  in hand by severe discipline & their usual  punishment here as in their own villages is by  means of the whip & often the most posterior &  softest portion of their anatomy is in a sorry  condition as a result.  They are very cunning  in Oriental fashion & while I was at the Corps several  men were brought up on the charge of knocking  out a Camels eye - they are cruel wretches & bang  the poor camels about the head with huge sticks  if not watched with the above mentioned result.
They were told that if they did not tell which  of them did it they would all be flogged  but refused as they always do but one  man said that a man who had been sent  to hospital told him that it was one particular  man.  Fortunately the man had ∧not been sent  to hospital & denied all knowledge of  the matter so the cunning fellow's statement  was bowled out  In the end they all had to get  whacked as no sense could be obtained & they  were obviously trying to cover up the matter.  We built ourselves a fairly comfortable home with  the aid of the niggers, but I didn't like seeing  their dirty black hands passing the food  along to us.  We were not very busy so I used to  go out riding with one or two of the officers to  some date hod or other where we could obtain  a good feed of ripe dates,  & I woud came  here on a visit a couple of times.  At the  beginning I had a very busy time as when I  arrived the camp was pitched just where the  Turkish trenches had been & was covered  with litter from the Turks & several dead Turks  were buried in the camp area.  So I immediately  saw the commandant of the whole area &  moved them away about a half a mile.  Then I had to set to work & fix them up  for sanitary materials Etc & see that they were well isolated from all the others &  see that their water fantassies (iron tanks  [*rectangle*] shaped thins about 3 x 2 x ½ but which are carried  by camels) did not come into contact with any other peoples at the water dump, &  carefully watch the men for signs of the  particular infectious disease in question.  So the first 2 or 3 days were busy but soon  settled down to the usual quiet time.  And  after it all just as their isolation period  was up it was found that the case had  not occurred in that company after all -  enough said.  I don't think that I told you in  my last letter that we had moved out a litttle further  - I wish I were able to tell you these names but  am not allowed, & now at last the date is fixed  for us to return to Romani for a spell & another  lot to come out in our stead.  Then we ought to  be able to obtain leave & we are already trying  to find out if the powers that be will allow  us to go to Luxor.  I had a letter from Wesley  this week - he has arrived in England  & had four days leave which he spent  in London & Birmingham with his relatives.  He hopes to go & see Aunty Lily as soon  as he has a little more leave.  I also  had a letter from Aunty Lily which had taken  rather long time as she addressed it to the 
3rd Regiment & she said she was sending a  parcel also - the letter was readdressed  from that Regt & came all right but  I fear me for the fate of the parcel - they  would probably not be so anxious to  readdress it from that Regiment. Well well my dear I fear I am exhausted  in news & hand but I do hope you are  well - I often long to see you &  think of you as you sat beneath the  store verandah saying goodbye &  wish I could pop in and see you  but we must just wait patiently for a  little time longer & all will be well &  we will appreciate it all the more  So cheer up my dear there is a good time  coming  with best of love to all  & an extra hug for mother from,
Her loving son Wilf

