Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 9 February 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


9th L.H. Regt., Heliopolis 9. 2. 1916. My dear mother, I regret to say that no letters have reached me since I wrote you last. We had a long interval between mails & one has arrived today - I am hoping against hope that it may contain some letters for me - two Sydney mails sent by Harry are my combi share so far but they give me encouragement. It may be that after the evacuation you altered the address, or that my being in hospital for a few days may have upset things, so I am writing to the Intermediate Base.  They will turn up in time as they have done previously even if it's months afterwards.   Camp life is persuing it’s regular & monotonous way without much variation. For the most part I amuse myself here & occasionally run into Cairo, which however offers few attractions. My work here is very light though we have a very large number of men in the regiment at present - over 11 00 & another 140 reinforcements arriving tonight.   Wastage is of course very small at present & we are still being reinforced 
as before. I rise at a few minutes to seven & complete my sick parade before breakfast, then generally see a few more men afterwards & do my camp rounds finishing up by about half past eleven or twelve.  This week however our whole Brigade has been going out into the desert for training, leaving about nine oclock & returning at four or five in the afternoon & I have been going also.  The troops make a fine picture as they march out mounted followed by their machine guns in limbers & the various baggage carts. I commenced doing their drill with them but soon found that I was very much in the way so now I always betake myself to the shelter of some trees near by & while away the time with "Pickwick Papers". I generally take my one or two of my men with me & the Maltese cart which carries my medical equipment when on the march, but under these circumstances takes the officer’s lunch. I have been arranging for this in my capacity of mess secretary & our caterer here puts up 
quite a decent lot of food - bread & cheese  sandwiches, bread & tongue, hard boiled eggs, salmon, bully beef for a change, tomatoes & fruit. We carry two "dixies” for making tea - they are somewhat the shape of an old thing you had in Cooma for boiling clothes in. We take out a tablecloth & spread it under the trees & so make matters quite enjoyeable. This afternoon I decided to go for a ride instead of waiting about for someone to be injured, so left my regiment drilling & went for quite a long run through the irrigated land. We have had the opportunity while lunching of inspecting the Cairo pumping plant which is situated just at our lunching post & contains some very fine machinery. Wesley & I have been into the city a couple of times for afternoon tea at Groppis which is our best place for such frivolities & we meet there always numbers of people we know. I met no less than eleven people the first afternoon - it is quite pleasant to chat to them after being in camp for some time. Yesterday we met Graham, saw some of our own officers there & also Sister Lowe who was assistant matron at Prince Alfred & left there with No TTT Aust Gen. Hospital which was at Lemnos for a long time & has now been established here in some old barracks
which are now being renovated. We had another sports day here last Saturday but the girls we invited did not come, however we soon found a couple of others we knew & entertained them at afternoon tea. There are no indications of our moving off yet & rumors of our ultimate destination are as numerous & as contradictory as ever. Must close now for lack of news with best love to all the family & a double share to mother from Her loving son, Wilf. 