Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 24 June 1918
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Near Bethlehem Jerusalem
Nationality: Australian

Text:


24.6.1918. My dear mother, As I'm rather short of note paper - can't find any in fact I must write to you on this. Since my last letter we have moved into the hills for are a rest & are now camped near the birthplace of Christ. We were very glad indeed to hand over to some one else the particular spot we were in as a hotter & more dusty spot could hardly be imagined. We had dinner once or twice in Jerusalem at a hotel there & found the change an excellent one. We are now camped in a on monastery which was abandoned by it's monks & Col. Dixon & I inhabit a room together where we are very comfortable. Mosquitos however are rather troublesome but fortunately are not for the most part the malaria carriers, & we are well protected with nets. Since coming 
here we have had opportunities of seeing the Church of the Nativity (at Bethlehem) which is like the church of the Holy Sepulchre at Jerusalem divided into three portions Greek Roman Catholic & Armenian & has the same superstructure of tawdriness that the latter has. The Roman Catholic portion is not so bad as the others & contains a couple of most. exquisite paintings of the wise men presenting gifts & the  appearance of the angels on the night reading of the birth of Christ. Some say these were painted by Raphael & they certainly are very fine indeed. The Greek portion of the church however is positively revolting. it's walls are covered with paintings of all kinds & most of them atrocious. The figures representing Christ are too awful for words & the  whole place disgusts one. One goes down a number of steps to the vaults where the stable of the inn was & a star on the  floor marks the spot where Christ was born. The original manger was moved to Rome but it's position is still shown. The Greeks, Armenians & Catholics a good many years ago & quarreled over the place & fought around the very birthplace of Christ, overcame the Turkish guard who was there for the  protection of the place & in the confusion the place caught fire & most of the beautiful paintings by Raphael & others  were destroyed. I think that exemplifies the spirit of those people guarding the holy places more than anything I know. We also visited the place where Christ was hidden during the slaughter of the innocents (of which there is a beautiful painting in the church of the nativity) & saw the Shepherds Field. Bethlehem itself is rather a fine village much cleaner than most of the villages in Palestine & has chiefly a Christian population. There are two or three very good stone churches & most of the buildings are of stone, some quite large & imposing & nearly all well built & finished off.  Some two or three miles away are Solomon's pools, several tremendous reservoirs which caught the flood waters of a  large gully & also those of a small spring & from them an aqueduct conveyed the water to Jerusalem. This aqueduct was composed of pipes made of huge pieces of rock with a ^round hole cut through the centre in the pipe & fitted at each end like pieces of an iron pipe line to dovetail into one another. The amount of work to construct 15 or 20 miles of this must have been terrific & was done I believe by Solomon. The large reservoirs which have a capacity of millions of gallons were also built by Solomon & repaired by Pontius Pilate who lost his job by spending too much of the public money on them. So you see we are in quite an interesting  place at present & within easy  reach of Jerusalem. The country is very pretty hereabouts too with it's light green vines contrasting  with the dark green of the olive trees & villages nestling on the sides of hills, built of stone & in the flat topped Eastern style. It is delightfully cool too, one could hardly realize that there would be such a difference in a few miles, it was scorching in the  valley while here it is cool & delightful with a pleasant breeze most of the day. Must close now my dear, hoping  you are all well & with  lots of love from Your loving son Wilf.