Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 7 May 1918
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


Es. Salt Letter. 7.5.1918  My dear mother, I don't quite know how many days it is  since I last wrote as we have had a very busy & exciting   time during the intervening period.  By the way, a mail arrived   yesterday & I received three very welcome letters from you  - I must get hold of them before I post this & see what there is to reply to. We started off a few days ago on  an expedition away up into the hills which you will  doubtless have read of before this to Es Salt. Starting  off one evening we marched nearly all night marching  up along the valley of the Jordan & next morning  attacked the foothills of the tremendous range of  hills on the other side which I have formerly described  to you at a spot which was only lightly held by  Turks with the object of getting round to the flank  & rear of the town. The resistance in the foothills  was overcome fairly easily & towards evening we  set out up a goat track for Es Salt. Such a  march I have never done before or since & never  wish to do again. We had to ascend 4000  feet above the valley of the Jordan over a track  which is indescribable. It is impossible to ride  up so we had to dismount & lead our horses  & it is covered with sharp scraggy rocks which impede progress terribly & over which the poor old horses stumbled terribly. In places the edges of the track drop precipitously for hundreds of feet. The experience was a veritable nightmare, as darkness came on before we had gone very far & we stumbled on up huge never ending hills in the darkness for hours. At one period my groom & I were separated from the column in front which had vanished in the darkness & had no one in rear & we went along the ill marked track for some time & then thought that possibly we had missed our way & had better wait till some of the others overtook us. It was rather a horrid experience as we were seated in a gully almost alone in the darkness surrounded by the huge hills & not knowing whether we were near the Turkish lines or some of the native villages which are inhabited in that part by unscrupulous & generally armed people. We waited for a few minutes & then decided that we had better try & retrace our steps till we met some of our folk in case we were wrong, so we went back a couple of miles & to our great relief met a Regiment halted on the track. So we waited & came along with them. Eventually we halted for the night & picketed the horses. It was very cold in the hills & I had only a thin macintosh on the saddle but managed to snatch an hour or twos slumber as we had none the previous night. Next morning we were up early & pushed into Es Salt which had been taken by the Brigade I once belonged to  x the previous night in a very dashing way, They had charged the defenders on the hill tops above the town & then galloped into the streets & bagged about 300 prisoners. How their horses kept their feet I don't know as it is a terribly steep rocky descent into the town. Col Dixon & I entered together & made our way to the Turkish hospital which was as usual full of sick & wounded & in charge of a Syrian doctor named Shediac who had been left behind at his own request as he was very anxious to escape to us as he had been educated in America & come back to Beirut  just a year or two before the war & when war broke out had been impressed by the Turks into service. He spoke English well & was of great assistance to us. We decided to take over the old Turkish headquarters next door as our hospital, from whence Gemel Pasha had only escaped a few minutes before our arrival.  There were some beautiful chairs carpets & tables there & the place was fairly clean & in good order. We next went to headquarters & arranged for necessary guards over hospital & for permission to use food supplies Etc which were in the town, & sent down one of the Ambulances to form a pla receiving place there for wounded. I went in to look after this & Col Dixon returned to our own headquarters. I found the stairs which led up to the Turkish headquarters very steep for carrying up wounded so cast round for a suitable spot on street level & finally located one near by which had been used as a grain store. At the back was an R C church containing large quantities of grain. We cleaned the place up & started our hospital, & soon wounded began to arrive. I began a search round the town for transport for wounded, as we  had been unable to bring any wheeled vehicles up with us & only few camels had been able to struggle up, so that we were rather stumped. I discovered a Turkish motor Ambulance in working order & impressed a German motor driver from among the prisoners to drive it under a guard. It had sufficient petrol in the tank to run it for a while & I sent it off down the main road to evacuate wounded into the town from where the Brigades were fighting. I had better draw a little sketch to show you how there happened to be a main road at that point. It was like this.  We went up the goat track marked on the left as the main metalled road on the right was strongly held by Turks & so we cut in on to their rear but in doing so could bring no wheeled vehicles with us. They had motor transport running from Amman to Es Salt & down to the Jordan however & Amman is on their railway  to the Hedjaz. So when we reached Es Salt I wanted some wheeled vehicles to run up the road to Amman & also along the other way to bring in wounded to Es Salt. So we got the motor Ambulance going & I also found several Turkish wagons & harness for them which we attached to some of our own pack horses & used them for the job. Later on I got a touring car going too & was working on some motor lorries which they had left behind to get them in working order. Food was the next question as we could hardly bring up supplies along the road which we  had come & the Turks held the main road so through the agency of the Syrian doctor I got hold of the chief town baker & arranged for him to start baking bread I found however that we had only two bags of flour ground so that the next problem was to get a mill working to grind the wheat into flour. Our engineers helped me & we obtained quite a lot of benzene in the town by searching through the houses of the natives who had plundered what had been left behind by the Turks. We succeeded in getting the mill going & with the aid of a Turkish wagon & a couple of our horses conveyed flour grain to it & wood to flour from the mill to the bakers. So we soon had an excellent supply of bread for ourselves & the Turkish wounded & I requisitioned some cows from the inhabitants for fresh meat, giving them receipts in exchange. These were slaughtered by some of the Turkish hospital orderlies. We also used some Turkish wagons as transport for wounded using our own horses as means of traction. Wounded began to arrive soon after our arrival in the town some by camel cacolets which had been got up the hills with great difficulty & some on our captured Ambulance & wagon & soon the hospital was very busy. I took up my quarters for the two nights we spent in Es Salt in the room of the chief Turkish doctor to Gemel Pasha who had bolted. So I had a four poster bedstead, wardrobe with looking glass & all complete. The Turks shelled the town rather heavily on two or three occasions & killed & wounded some of the inhabitants & destroyed some houses. Some of the inhabitants were Christian & there were two Christian churches one Roman Catholic & one Protestant & the R C church had some of the most beautiful vestments in it that I have ever seen. We sent  The Turks ill treated the inhabitants very much & killed a lot of them not after our last raid to that place so they were very frightened indeed. We sent away from time to time all the men who were fit to ride, on thei riding horses sent from the Brigades as that was the only means at our disposal along the precipitous goat track we had come. During this time the Turks were making frequent attacks on us as we were holding a long thin line, but our fellows fought magnificently & repelled them all along the line, outnumbered as they were, & in one case bagged an extra 300 prisoners in addition to the 300 they had at first taken. These prisoners were also sent back straight away to get them out of the way. On the third day after our entry I received orders to send away every case I possibly could by means of riding horses which were being sent down & all the cacolet camels. I thought at the time that we would surely have to leave 30 or 40 behind as we only had accommodation on camels for a few lying cases, & we had orders to get every possible case away & then come ourselves. We decided that if we had to leave anyone to leave also 1 NCO & 2 men to look after them and when the Turks took over. Our position at that spot was quite untenable for long as we were almost surrounded by Turks & had a very good chance of going to Constantinople. You see we had gone along one very narrow track which was our only connection back with our own people & which was being kept open by a very thin line of our folk, & in addition just where this band left the hills the Turks had driven in a very strong attack & gone within an ace of cutting off the exit in which case we were bottled & bound for Turkey land. So the heads evidently thought it time to get out. The riding horses & camels arrived & we loaded them as rapidly as we could & in the end found that we were able to get all our wounded on board save two dying cases who could not survive long & these were left, & we brought away all the Ambulance personnel leaving none behind though one corporal badly wanted to stay with the two dying fellows, but we would not permit him as they were at the time practically unconscious. Col Dixon & I stayed until we saw the last man away & then guided our convoy out of the town by a devious narrow steep path. I certainly never thought that we would get the camels & their wounded safely down the precipitous rocky hills which lay between us & the Jordan. I expected before leaving the town to be attacked by some of the Bedouin inhabitants but all went well until we got on to the hills outside the town when they opened fire on our convoy from the hill sides around. They hit one of the Ambulance fellows in the knee & wounded three horses but all continued their slow way onwards. One camel frightened by the firing fell over a precipice  with its two wounded but they were eventually rescued and brought on The convoy marvellous to relate reached the plain without another mishap but how those camels did it I can't imagine & I'll take my off my hat to a camel in future The contrast on the plain from the fresh air of the hills was tremendous as on the hills the air was fresh & clear & cool, the country green &  beautiful, but when we descended into the Jordan valley the heavy stagnant hot air & dried up country was a very unpleasant contrast & since then it has grown steadily hotter & yesterday reached 110o, & that degree of temperature when one's protection is a small bivouac made of water proof sheet is no joke. The dust in the valley is beyond all description as the traffic of men & horses churns everything to a fine powder which blows in huge clouds, obscuring everything. It was very windy today & that has brought an agreeably cool change into the atmosphere so that we are very pleased tonight. The Syrian doctor came back with us & is now safely away from the Turks. No more news now my dear so will close with best of love & hugs from Your loving son, Wilf.