Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 14 September 1917
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


14.9. 1917. My dear mother, I have been trying to write to you every day since last Sunday & it has now reached Friday of the second week. The trouble has been that the A.D.M.S, Colonel Dixon who is my immediate superior has been away & consequently I have had the responsibility of attending to the medical requirements of the division in so far as staff work goes, & it has kept me very busy all week. Jack came over to see me one day last week and spent a whole afternoon here, seemed to enjoy himself too. Unfortunately I  could not take him into the officers mess here, as the custom of the army forbids it. However I managed to procure him some nourishment as soon as he arrived & at afternoon tea time brought over tea & biscuits for two to my bivouac, & we did full justice to them. We were talking of afternoon teas in Candelo as Jack showed me a print of you in the buggy with Monty under the willows, taken  just before Jack left Australia - I think  when he was on final leave. This led to a discussion of afternoon teas under the willows with you & we both wished we could join you at that time. However I said, as we couldn't we would make the best of what we had & Jacks eyes sparkled when I appeared a little later with two cups of tea & some currant lunch biscuits. Jack is not in love with military life, but he did not anticipate that he would be when he enlisted & I think grooming horses, several times daily & driving a wagon for some hours is hardly the most attractive job in the world. Still on the whole he is content & has some good friends with him. I had been so much in the office this week that I determined to go out yesterday & rode over to see Jack again. My poor old horse went lame just as I got there - sprained his fetlock I think & I was sorry as he is such a good reliable beast with plenty of go in him. I had to leave him there & borrow another one to ride home. I had not much time to spare & what with fixing up about the horse & knowing another Jack & I didn't have much time for talking. We have had quite a number of visitors here lately, a couple of officers from 3rd Ambulance came over the other day & stayed for dinner at night - Leahy & Baker, you may have heard me speak of them before. Then last night Parry & a dentist named Robertson came over for dinner so we had another party. I'm rather lost this week as Smith, my batman, is in Cairo - he is very fond of  trotting up there if he gets a chance & as I had an opportunity of sending him up for a typewriter he jumped at the chance. The weather is cooling down perceptibly here now & I expect that it will be very cold here in winter as we are some way North of Egypt. it is still very quiet on this front & after all we are no having a bad time - a little monotonous of course & we all wish to get back home & to our normal occupations again but the is no use in thinking about it, we must make the best of it,  & we always get 3 meals a day & live fairly comfortable at that, while the times are peaceful I have been sitting here for about ten minutes now trying to think of some further news to tell you, but bother me if there is any my dear, so I must close this uninteresting epistle with much love to all & an extra hug for mother from Her loving son Wilf.