Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 17 May 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:

17.5.1916. My dear mother,  No mail has arrived since I last  wrote you but we expect one any day now as it is a  fortnight since the last. Wesley & I broke the monotony  this week by going off to Ismailia for the day last  Sunday. We left here at 6.30 a.m. - I had previously  done my sick parade - & caught a train to Ismailia from the nearest railway station. Even at that time  in the morning it was hot so our first performance  was to go into the club & have an iced lemon  squash & it was glorious to get a really cold  drink again. Then we trotted round to the hospital,  saw a few people there including Davidson who  go graduated a year after us at Sydney & was  attached to the 3rd L.H.F Amb. but is now sick in  hospital. We repaired to the club for lunch &  saw a lot of English papers there also & later in  the afternoon went for a dip in the lake, which  was delightful as it was a sweltering day  & the water was glorious. We managed  to borrow tights & dressed in some proper  bathing boxes which are placed along  the banks of the lake. We then swallowed  more lemon squashes & afternoon tea &
wandered about in the cool evening air till  our train departed, but the villainous thing  was 1½ hours late & so we did not get back  to camp until 2 a.m. It was beautifully  moonlight on our return trip & although  we felt a little tired, riding home was not  unpleasant. It may seem a ridiculous  thing to do making such a big day as that  but it is well worth while in order to make  some variation in our life here. The weather  has warmed up in earnest now & two of  our thermometers in water registered 106° yesterday  in the tent so I suppose that it was a good  many degrees over that but we dared not leave  them out as they would burst at 110°.  The flies also are very troublesome as they  persist in coming into the shade of the  tent or humpy & cause great annoyance as  their numbers beat anything I have ever seen. We keep them down a lot by spraying but  they breed very fast. The nights are not  unbearably hot fortunately & we sleep well  I have a horses nosebag on my tent as a waterbag  & have now a bottle of lime juice & manage to  put a surprising quantity away. My batman  boils the water each night & fills the bag 
as I never trust the water in these places.  As for tea we put it away by the pint.  I don't think our Turkish friends will  visit us at all now - if they can cross  this desert in the heat they are not  mortal, so I expect we will have a  quiet time. We have no mosquitos or  sandflies which is a great comfort  Stuck again my dear for news so  must think of finishing. I do hope  you are keeping well & in good spirits  & taking a trip away. Best of love to  all & a double share to mother from  Her loving son, Wilf.