Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 25 December 1917
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:



25.12.1917 My dear mother, I'm just making an attempt to write you a few lines on Xmas day & hoping that you are enjoying your Christmas as much as possible with two of the family so far away. I am wondering if you are at Goulburn Lismore Newcastle or still in Candelo: can just  imagine you pottering in the kitchen over the Xmas goose or turkey (it is now about 10 a.m.) & getting everything right for dinner, & I suppose it is as hot as can be outside in the sun. We are having a "dead funny Xmas". We are now away up in the hills of Jordan, where tracks are few & only made with great labour, & all around us are rough craggy hills, devoid of trees but covered with huge boulders. Villages are still scattered about & the Arabs plough the rich soil in the bottoms of the valleys. It is as cold as charity & the weather typically English - for the last week it has been raining off & on & last night Xmas eve it simply poured all night & blew a hurricane, & I was in hourly dread that my bivouac would blow down as it is only held by six pegs However it fortunately held & I kept fairly dry save one or two of my items of clothing which however did not incommode me much. Some of the men however were much less fortunate & slept in about a foot of water. This morning its raining like a fun again, so you can imagine we are not holding high festival. Still everyone is cheerful, only some of them didn't seen to appreciate it very much, when I said that it was splendid to have the rain laying the dust for us like this (most of us have about a foot of mud caked on our boots - its horribly sticky) - very few seemed to agree with me. I went down yesterday in a Ford motor car (they are really wonderful things) through the mud, between showers & brought up Padré Gordon, of Goulburn & a friend of Harry's who is our padré on Division & who has been attached to one of our Clearing Hospitals during operations. The General wanted him here for Xmas & so we had service this morning - only a short one as it was very cold & commenced to rain heavily & there was no shelter. We sang one or two of the old hymns Bethlehem etc & then made a dive for our bivouacs again & I smoked the pipe of peace there Pipe is a great consolation under these circs. By the way, the parcel from the Candelo Knitting Association, containg socks & hankys from you & the tobacco all in good condition arrived a day or two ago. Many thanks my dear once more, it was exceedingly welcome. Also the Dayfield Body Shield which I fear will not be of very great service, as every pound of weight tells on a horse in long distances & I really am not exposed a great deal on Divisional Headquarters but I will pass it to someone to whom it may be of some use, if I find I cannot use it. But, bless you again my dear for your thoughtfulness & generosity. I had some letters also this week, one from Mab strangely enough asking for a spoon as curio & I sent one along with other curios from Jerusalem to you a few days ago asking you to distribute them among the family. I hope the books of views arrive safely also as they are quite good. Keep what you want my dear & pass on the others. Glad you put some cash in the War Loan for me, if it is a good investment - just whatever you think mother mine. My hair, of which you were enquiring, does not become any thicker, indeed I imagine it is thinner, but why worry, I can't do much to it, on operations, as difficulties of carrying even extra small things are so great, but I just got a pot of ointment to stop the scurf last night - I'm afraid none of the girls will look at me if I'm a bald, old man, & that would be horrible wouldn’t it? For goodness sake mother, don't go & disturb your nights sleep with such dreadful dreams as you have, it's not good for the constitution Please excuse the smudges, the rain splashes in a bit on the paper & I can't quite see where ths it's coming from. Anderson who was in my year at the Varsity has just arrived here & is in one of the Ambulances in this Division - about time he arrived too though it is rather uncharitable to say so at Xmas - he brought a tie to  me from Dr Rennie & a letter arrived the same day from him. I was just thinking today of the 3 Christmas days I have had since leaving home - one on the Mediterranean dodging submarines, the second just arrived back from Magdhaba with a load of wounded & the third in the  hills of Judaea in the rain. By Jove! it is pouring - I hope the farmers here like it - if only Mr Guthrie and some of the  Collinss were here they would dote on it. Full stop for a minute, the main peg started to come out & the bivouac to collapse so I had to rush out & save it with the aid of my batman- it’s a lovely war isn't it my dear? There's one thing about weather like this - Johnny Turk isn't likely to become lively so we won't have much to do likewise we wouldn’t be likely to attack either. I shouldn't like to have the job of drawing rations today - what a life !!! No more news my dear, & as it's still pouring persistently we can feel hopes of a good crop in Palestine in the spring & wish them luck. Best of love to all from Your loving son Wilf.