Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 2 March 1917
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


2.3.1917. My dear mother, Your letter following the Battle of Rafa arrived safely this week & so Jack has been & gone & is now soon to come along to Egypt. He will first of all go to Moasca near Ismailia which you have heard me mention before & then go along to his Regiment when reinforcements are required. Y Unfortunately his regiment will not be in the same Brigade as this as this one is composed of Victorians & Western Australians largely but I will manage to see him somehow or other. We are still having a quiet time here, one day very like another. This afternoon Henry Leahy one of our new officers & a very good fellow, & I went to the Flying Corps on a visit & while there opened a boil or two as they have no medico. It was very interesting to see the place & the aeroplanes in their hangars & to watch them rising & coming down, they were coming & going very frequently & rose from the ground or alighted with the greatest of ease. One, however on landing apparently had some
engine trouble for it came down with a rush hitting the top of a tent not far from us & plunged into the ground, but fortunately did not do itself or it's occupants much damage. The photographs taken by airmen & upon which they rely for most of their information are very interesting. They show the nature of the ground very clearly, flat country is seen as a broad uninterrupted stretch & hilly country looks somewhat like the moon does through a telescope or like those maps you see in illustrated papers showing contours of the country. Trenches show remarkably clearly as dark lines just as if they had been pencilled out & tents are seen as round rings. It was the first time I had seen a large number of them & it was exceptionally interesting. One of our regiments gave a dinner to the Flying Corps recently & representatives of different units in our Brigade, myself among them were invited & it was quite a 
splendid affair. They had eight or ten courses & all very well served. The Brigadier was there & everyone had a very pleasant evening, speeches songs horseplay all filled in the time very well. Did I tell you in my last that our Colonel was away at Luxor & I was alone here for a day or two, till Leahy joined me, but it wasn't a very hard proposition to work. The Colonel has returned again now & we have settled down again. I am still doing Brigade Sanitary officer & go round periodically stirring up the various people in regard to the state of their camps. We asked a couple of fellows from my old Regiment to dinner the other night Majors Daly & Seikmann & afterwards indulged in a little game of Brigde with coffee at 10 o'clock quite like home again. Also had fresh fish today & good ones too, bought from the Bedouins who fish along the beach. No more news my dear so will close with lots of love to all & a special share for mother from Her loving son Wilf. 