Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 3 July 1918
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: No 14 General Hospital Officers' Mess
Nationality: Australian

Text:



No. 14 AUSTRALIAN GENERAL HOSPITAL A.I.F. OFFICERS' MESS July 3rd 1918  My dear mother, I am down at Hospital for a fortnight brushing up my medical work a little. Arrangements have been made recently for some of us to come here for 2 weeks instead of leave to have a change & see a little work. It is a very pleasant change, as the hospital is situated just on the sea & we have plenty of swimming & the air is beautifully fresh & cool even in the summer. When I last wrote we were at Bethlehem & I travelled down by rail from Jerusalem. It is a very pretty trip for the first part of the journey through the hills of Judaea which remind one so much of Biblical scenes. The hills are very steep & rocky but are practically all terraced & have grape vines growing in among the stones, & in the bottoms of the valleys where there are stone sometimes springs of water, the land is under crop. Olive trees & a few other fruit trees are very numerous & the peculiar dark green of the olive is very refreshing to look on. Did I tell you that I had another look round Jerusalem before leaving & saw a few more of the sights? One of the most interesting places is the German hostel on the Mount of Olives, a  magnificent stone building, beautifully finished in every way & three stories high. It cost some millions to build & has attached a splendid chapel with some good paintings in it & a fine pipe organ. It is very well finished off & has some fine Mosaic work in it too. The most striking thing however is the ceiling, which has in the centre a picture of Christ surrounded by paintings of the Apostles & at one end a picture of the Kaiser & his wife on a throne also surrounded by pictures of saints & people & at the other a picture of Jerusalem. To my mind nothing nearer blasphemy can be imagined & I think it well illustrates the mind of the present ruler of Germany, to thus place himself practically on an equal with Christ. One place I had not seen before also was the Church of the "Ecce Homo" built, over the site of Pilate's house & it has incorporated in it part of the old wall of the house.  It is a beautiful little chapel, the prettiest in Jerusalem I think. I saw again the Mosque of Omar which is certainly one of the finest things in the world. We took round with us some of our clerks & batmen who are only allowed to go round with an officer & they enjoyed it immensely. I am enjoying immensely sleeping in a decent bed again & have a medical ward with 150 patients in it, so that I am fairly well occupied, & am learning to use a stethoscope again. The sickness is mainly malaria & other fevers incidental to this country & a good many debilitated cases. I find among them quite a number of the men I have known in the field & there is always a certain amount of bon camaradie with these men whom one we has been associated with under trying conditions for 3 years or so & it is good to feel it. I always find quite a number of my old Regiment somewhere or other. No more tonight, my dear, I'm very well & hope you are. Don't overwork in the new home my dear, very best of love & lot of kisses from Your loving son, Wilf. 