Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 17 October 1915
Regiment: 3rd Light Horse Field Ambulance
Location: Anzac Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:

3rd Light Horse Field Ambulance,  Anzac,  October 17th 1915.  My dear mother,  This is my second letter to you from  Anzac, but I should not wonder if you received  several together as postal arrangements from here  are, as must be expected, not so orderly as at  home, as letters are collected here sent to the local  post office & from there daily to Lemnos from  whence they are sent to Alexandria whenever  there is a boat going & from there to Sydney or  Melbourne. And now of course the P. & O. &  Orient services are a good deal disorganised  I have become accustomed fairly well to the  life here & as far as my health goes it suits  me very well. For instance, I met Dr Archie  Aspinall now a Major - you remember he was  the son of Rev Aspinall when I landed & again  two or three days ago & he remarked that  it appeared to be agreeing with me very  well. An open air life always did. My appetite  is good & we always have plenty of food,
bread & milk for breakfast, followed by  bacon & sometimes by a chop as we have  had several issues of frozen meat since I  have been here. Then we have bread & jam  of course we do not have butter but we  don't miss it as Egyptian butter was vile  stuff as a rule. For dinner we have either  bully beef (i.e corned beef) in tins or frozen meat if  by chance there has been an issue & biscuits -  big square ones like a magnified soda -  or bread if this has been an issue & it has  been fairly constant lately (baked at Imbros   Island), & jam. Then for tea we always  have boiled rice & biscuits or bread & jam  (Just at present there is biff bang very  repeatedly from our batteries on the flat  & a few Turkish ones, one particular howitzer  of ours makes an awful din). I think I'm  putting on weight since I came over here.  You can my dear, get quite an accurate  idea of where I am at present if you take  up a good map of which you can easily  get one in the papers at times or  elsewhere & follow my directions. We are  at Fisherman's Hut which is a small  dilapidated old x mud house situated  almost on the beach about two hundred  yards from where I am sitting & is  
North of Anzak towards Suvla Bay you will find it marked on most of the maps in the papers today. As I see the coastline at present  The narrows are away across here somewhere I am just drawing this map to show items not of any military importance so that the censor may pass it so it is rather bare of any details & I never could draw maps Living over here is most economical as it is impossible to spend anything & we are provided with all the necessities of life. There is not even the usual officers mess to pay for. A canteen however has just been opened on Imbros
Island which is only about ten miles or twenty miles away & is plainly visible from here & we sent over one of our Sergeants this week who had a large number of commissions from all the men. he had orders for £70 worth of stuff for the unit here but could only procure £30. Such things as candles butter (2/6 lb.) chocolates, pickles chutney lollies, belts, looking glasses knives & so on are all greatly relished by the men. & most of us ordered something of the kind I lost my pipe & was in great need of one as smoking is a great solace out here if time tends to drag. I also ordered a little chocolate some Craven Mixture tobacco & a few other sundries & managed to procure most of them. He just arrived back today & there was great excitement in the camps as the mules brought the boxes alone. Mules are used very largely here & are of great service, they are so hardy, can eat almost anything & carry such huge loads. They have boxes hung on their backs one on each side & are driven tandem fashion, but three go together with one mule driver. The mule drivers are for the most part 
Indians but there are also Maltese & a few Egyptians. The advantage of them is also that mules can go along the "saps" which the men go along & so travel safely in the daylight I suppose you don't quite understand (my old phrase mum) that in order to proceed from one position to another safely it is necessary for a deep kind of trench to be dug so that the person travelling is not in view of the enemy & so this country for miles over is traversed by various "saps" connecting up all the positions In this way we can walk from here to Anzac or up to the trenches quite safely & unseen by the enemy who in some parts can look over the country we traverse from their trenches & would of course snipe at us if we walked along in the open. You can imagine however what a tremendous amount of work has been done by the men to 
construct these, & you will understand that probably the main part of a soldier's work today is using the pick & shovel & only a small part of it using the rifle. I went up a small pinnacle near here the other day & had a look at some old Turkish trenches which were beautifully constructed round the top of the hill. They are narrow, only room for one man to pass along with tunnels here & there forming protection from shrapnel & little excavations in the walls also for shelter & they wind in & out around the sides of the hill with branches here & there & looking over them one has a splendid view of the country near by & incidentally of the present Turkish positions The Turks must have spent a huge amount of time & energy digging recently for huge piles of earth can be seen heaped up wherever their trenches are
opposed to ours. I went for another stroll the other day towards Suvla Bay & could see from there the heights of Sari Bahr or Hill 971 which was the scene of the attack in August & the heights of which our boys scaled but were driven off again. It is tremendous almost precipitous in parts & steep almost everywhere rising in most places sheer from the valley below & now a perfect network of Turkish trenches can be seen on it's summit. It is Sunday today but the bombardment goes on as usual. I would like to go to a service near by if I can manage it, but it clashes with our tea hour - I must see if I can't get a bite a little later. Dr. Merrington is over here but is not preaching near here tonight Later In my dugout Left this & went to church leaving tea until a little late. Have now got my pipe between my teeth like Johnny boy puffing away furiously. The church service was the strangest I have ever attended It was commenced at 5.45 p.m. just as twilight was falling fast & a cold wind blowing round us. The preachers desk was a small wooden box situated in in the open in a space which has been cleared in order to erect a tent there. Some excavation had been necessary & the worshippers sat round on the sides of the bank thus formed. Then we commenced in the half light to sing the same old hymns which we have loved & sung so often - the minister leading off & the congregation joining in & from where I sat could be seen the beach & the sea beyond with a hospital ship lying off the land & stealing over the smooth bluish grey waters the sinister dark shapes of two destroyers on patrol duty. They usually send some shots over to the Turks about this hour in the evening but possibly they restrained them on account of the service. After the hymns & reading came the sermon when we all began to feel chilly & were glad when we could go back to a warmer world. Since writing you last I have not had a very large amount to do, chiefly admitting patients & doing inspection on my day as orderly officer but the rest of the time endeavouring to pass time away as pleasantly as possible. The Colonel showed me some of the office work which he wished me to be familiar with said he might wish me to act as Adjutant I often think of you over here as we have plenty of time to reflect, wonder how you are & can picture Fairview so vividly in my mind I could trace out the ascent of the hill the other day then along the top & see you at the gate or in the dining room. I do hope that my being here is not worrying you too much & that you are looking after your health, going out a good deal & not neglecting your holiday though I know you would miss me very much in Sydney. I'm afraid that I won't be able to send anything to anyone for Xmas, you know I had made arrangements to go & buy things in Cairo just before I left & fate would have it that my guide had an accident & did not turn up. However please apologize to all the family, with best of love to the whole - lot & a double share for mother from Her loving son (in a dugout) Wilf. P.S. I hope poor old Linda is not going in for any more of those gallstone colics. 