Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 15 September 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Camp Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


15. 9. 1916.  My dear mother,  Your The wattle blossoms enclosed in  your letter of 4th August arrived in good condition  yesterday bringing quite an Australian touch into  the atmosphere, & was glad to hear that father  was improving though slowly & that you yourself  were recovering from the heavy tax on your   own resources. It is a pity that you could not  have arranged to have extra help to do the work  so that you could have had Em & Alice with  you for a while as it would have been pleasant  for you all & good for you too if the necessary  assistance could have been obtained, but  without that of course impossible. You speak of  a scarcity of ham & bacon in Candelo & I think  we are partly responsible for that as bacon  forms part of our daily ration because it  keeps so well & I only wish I could send  my share along to you for I would be  quite content to see no more bacon for many  a long day. Since I last wrote you we  have moved camp, not so very many miles,  but it necessitated building ourselves new  humpies & we are not quite finished the job yet. 
Smith my batman has fixed me up very well though  by splitting a huge beam brought across by the Turks  into four & using these as corner posts. The sides  were filled in by upright palm branches & the roof  made from two waterproof sheets & it is quite  cool & comfortable. The old caravan route  which has for thousands of years seen the trade  of Egypt pass across the desert to Palestine  & Abyssinia & Greece forms consists of a depression in the  desert which has been padded down by the  feet of the camel convoys & the sand is here  somewhat firmer than the rest of the desert.   There are wells at occasional intervals but in  parts there are many waterless miles to be  covered & I understand that in the old days  the inhabitants of the country made their living  by selling water to the caravans & travellers.  At Katia where there was so much fighting  there was one of the main sources of water  supply. The Nile in past centuries entered the  sea far to the East of it's present position  somewhere in the region about 30 miles east  of the canal I believe. Old ruins are  scattered along the route also, more  numerous nearx the canal & the old mouth  of the river. It was along this route that Joseph & Mary travelled & the well named  after them at Matorrhea near Heliopolis  which I have previously mentioned to you  was one of the stage posts. The Turks in  their recent attack made use of this old   track also to bring over their heavy  guns & they improved it by cutting  down palm branches & placing them across it  & covering them lightly with sand. In the  softer places they were compelled to use  large beams for the heavy guns & we  have found very large numbers of these  in places in diminsions some 8 or 10 feet long  by 1½ feet wide & 1½ or 2 inches thick.  Their transport must have been huge  task & when one sees the number of shell  cases & the huge heavy boxes in which  they were brought it makes one realize  the immensity of the task they undertook  & the really splendid way it was for the  most part organized. I have settled down  in the Ambulance pretty well now & am getting  accustomed to it's routine & learning things  about it's working which will doubtless be  useful. The weather here has moderated very much during the last month & is now  really splendid. It is a little warm in the sun  between 8 & 10 a.m. & then a breeze straight   from the Mediterranean comes up & it is  beautifully cool. It is much better here than   at Serapeum as we are nearer the sea, & it is  very much cooler than stuffy Cairo with it's  closely packed population. In addition we move  about here in short trousers & shirts which we  can't do in Cairo & the addition of a jacket  makes one very uncomfortable. I am enclosing   a photo of myself taken at Bally Bunion  some weeks ago in front of my tent which I  hope you will like, also one of Charley  Wesley at Alexandria recovering from his  illness - but it is a frightful one of the   poor beggar & he does not look himself  at all. Hope you are all well now &  cheerful with very best love from  Your loving son  Wilf.