Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 23 October 1915
Regiment: 9th Light Horse Regiment 3rd Light Horse Brigade
Location: Anzac Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:

9th Light Horse Regiment, 3rd Light Horse Brigade, Anzac, October 23rd, 1915. [* Each of you please let me have this back soon so send it on without delay. *] My dear mother, Here we are again in a different spot once more, the reason being that one of the regimental medical officers of this Brigade who has been here for more than five months became sick & was sent away for a spell & I came up here to relieve him as the ambulances of a Brigade supply medical men when necessary I am only attached here temporarily till the previous medico is better. We are on the top of a hill here called called Rhodadendron a very pretty spot with a splendid view of the surrounding country & ocean It is about half an hours walk from the ambulance & is a fairly steep ascent in places. Before I forget please address all letters to the ambulance as before, because I can easily get them there & may be returned to it at any time. My quarters here are very good & very well protected. I form here what is called a regimental aid post to which all sick & wounded from the trenches come. There is one fairly large room dug into the side of the cliff  hill which has only a gentle slope at this part, & this forms the consulting room & surgery as it would be called in private practice or dressing station as it is called here & is about twelve feet square. My own dug out adjoins it & is covered by a roof in common with the other, & is quite a spacious concern compared with any others I have seen, about three times the size of my former one. Why! I can stand up in it & then have a foot or two to spare above my head. In addition I don't sleep on the ground but have some hessian stretched between two pieces of timber forming quite a good bed & a good many small boxes & pigeon holes to put things in. Numerous pictures, comic & otherwise, cut from magazines adorn the wall & are relics of the former occupant. I have a sick parade aga twice daily, 9 a.m. & 4.45 p.m. & generally have about twenty men to treat. There is a good deal of dysentery, also peculiar epidemic kind of jaundice, sore throats & soon, to say nothing of debility as some of the men who have been here a long time get run down from the monotony chiefly I think still on the whole their health is by no means bad. I have a corporal & two men to assist do dressings, give out medicine & so on. Very few wounded men come along just at  present, large batches only occur during an attack by one side or the other. Only one man has come in wounded since my arrival two days ago & he was struck by a shrapnel bullet in the upper thigh, by no means a serious wound. I also have to look after the sanitary arrangements of the camp & see that everything is properly carried out in that respect. The weather during the last few days has become very boisterous & much colder, keen northerly winds come rushing over  the hills & make us thankful that we have warm things to put on. The days also are becoming short & the long evenings rather trying as there is some difficulty  in procuring lighting apparatus I have been fortunate as we have had quite a  number of candles in our chest here & are entitled to draw more as "medical  comforts" because it is necessary for medical purposes to have sharp light. At the ambulance they had a number of hurricane lanterns which gave quite a good light but we are not quite so well off here. I am still reading Pendermes & it is a great standby for reading  matter is short here & we have a good  deal of spare time during which we read if any material is available. I had thought of writing & asking Aunty Lily to send  me out some of the latest English papers such as "Land & Water" "Weekly Times" & so on as the distance is not so great but I found that it takes a month for mails to come from England as they go first to Egypt which they reach in about ten days  & are then re-sorted & sent on here & that takes some time. So I thought it hardly worthwhile. I hope to receive some mail from home again soon as I wrote to the hospital soon after my arrival here & asked one of the men there to forward the letters on, & allowing two weeks for my letter to go there & two to come back I might have letter in another week or two as I have 
been here nearly three weeks now. I have a splendid batman here, very willing & very attentive, brings me tea to bed in the morning, hot shaving water & hot water to wash in afterwards, tells me when meals are ready, brings tea & hot toast in the afternoon & is really a treasure. His dug out is just next to mine so all is very convenient. We have quite a good "mess" here, only five of us dine together, colonel, major, adjutant, quartermaster & myself. The other officers live in the trenches & their dugouts are there also so that they rarely come down here to headquarters. They evidently bought largely from the canteen recently so we fare quite luxuriously. The front trenches here are about four hundred yards away from the Turks which is quite a long distance, as in some cases only five or ten yards separate the opposing trenches but neither side does the other much harm by rifle fire though they fire off a good number of rounds purposefully at night as they both keep under cover & daren't show their heads above the parapet. By means of periscopes however they easily observe each others position in safety by merely pushing the top of the periscope over the trench & looking at the bottom end  you understand the principle I suppose mum, its a piece of wooden tubing 3 or 4 feet long with a piece of glass in the  top end & one in the bottom, arranged at such angles that a view of the landscape straight ahead is reflected  back from the upper one into the lower one & from the lower one into the observer's eyes. I often wonder, my dear, if you are worrying as much as I feared you might do, or whether you have ^settled down & are content in the thought that I am doing what is right. It is you who are making the sacrifice, in undergoing anxiety at my being here & I do hope that you are quite resigned to it. That red cross which I wear on my arm & which is the symbol of Him who gave his life 
for others serves to remind me constantly that I am here to try & relieve the sick & wounded & if anything befalls me in so doing there should be no regrets at all & I hope my dear that you can look at it in the same light as I do. Not that I think that the risk is so great, for it is not to a medical man who is not compelled to rush at a trench which is dealing out death & destruction like those brave fellows in the ranks have to do & I am looking forward to meeting you at no far distant period, but I want you to feel reconciled & in fact glad that I am undergoing some risk in order  to help sick & wounded men, & you may quite rely on me not to undergo more than necessary for I am by no means a fire eater. This is Sunday night again but no church service up here this week but I can imagine you & father going to the little kirk & back home again & hope that the country round 'Fairview' has a fine greenish tinge, strange to think of you entering summer & us winter & here I am sitting in my old dugout (with the wind whistling in the corners & the sound of rifles popping, exactly like a "catherine wheel" with occasional "squibs" going off) conveyed in spirit right away to Australia. Then there is Harry Linda & family in their cottage (there goes a big bunger somewhere a.d.o. bomb) discussing W Williams sermon & trying not to wake the baby - (the little dear it is so pretty) Ern & Alice amongst the Newcastle smoke- their kids (beg pardon) are sure to be awake although they are very fine children both of 'em. I wonder has Gwen broken her neck over the verandah yet, or Ron had choked himself with a piece of pork or a loaf of bread & if he is still as like his father as he always wasn't, then theres Suey & Arthur just returned from Lismore heights where their elders live & sitting in that little back parlor, & old Johnny in his dug out helping to produce the stuff that feeds us all - good old bully beef, & I hope that they all have a thought for me sometimes as I know they do. My best love to all and a double share for mother from his loving son,  Wilf.
 