Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 4 May 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:

W. Evans 9th L.H. Regiment. 4.5.1916  My dear mother, Once again I commence a letter to you in this same old spot with practically no news to tell you. Life continues to go on from day to day in the same monotonous way with practically no variation. I have my usual sick parades in the morning, occasional visits to our outlying posts & the rest of the time is spent largely in reading. After dinner at night I very often sit with Colonel Arnott outside his  hut smoking & talking till it is time to retire He is a very well read man & our conversation often turns on the books we have read or the places he has seen & sometimes on dear old Sydney. The young Turk has not yet favored us with a visit, though we have partially expected him to present us with his card for some time past. Wesley comes out & visits me occasionally & I have been in to him to dinner a couple of times this week. There is a Catholic chaplain attached to his regiment who is a very fine chap & we have often very interesting discussion
with him always avoiding debatable ground. We were discussing last night the effect of the war on the youth of our day & I'm afraid that we agreed, in spite of various articles which are often published to the effect that it will have very good influence, that it would be the reverse from what we have ourselves observed.   However, that remains to be seen. I had a visit this week from Welsh & Powell of the 0th F  a Field Ambulance whom you will remember we visited some week or two ago & we rode about taking some snaps which they were anxious to obtain. But there is very little here to make a decent picture so I've not been taking any lately & of course we are not allowed to send any  which may have military significance. I sincerely hope my dear, that your health is better & that you will take that holiday soon. I am quite well & trotting about a good deal as usual. Wish I had some news, my dear, as I haven't must end this terribly short scrawl with the best of love to all & mother's usual share from Her loving son, Wilf.