Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 29 August 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Syrian Desert
Nationality: Australian

Text:


29. 8. 1916.  My dear mother,  Mail arrived last night & though  I received no letters from you or the family I  received that boncer billy & a fine parcel of  books from Harry. I think the billy should have  come last mail, for parcels are generally a little  late & probably New South Wales letter bag did not  arrive with the others. My dear, the billy was  beautiful, it reflected mother all through  containing as it did all those little things  that only mother can think of. It arrived  at such an opportune time also as we are  so far out at present that we are unable  to purchase things directly & the arrival of such  a fine assortment fulfilled many wants. My  toothbrush has been a source of anguish for  some time. The sweets were real good as whenever  we are right away on army rations only we always  have a desire for sweets as at Gallipoli whereas  in base camp we seldom touch them. The  cake is appearing at afternoon tea - six of  us mess together here - Colonel, second in Command,  Adj Adjutant, Quartermaster, Signalling officer & myself.
So we will have some opinions on Mrs T's cake.  Did I ever thank Mab for her socks - I forget  at any rate they were splendid & saved my  life on this stunt as all my thin ones are  in rags & tatters. Harry's books were also  very opportune, please thank him very much - I  only wrote him a few days ago. We have been  without reading matter here except for papers  by the mail & they will be very acceptable  indeed. As a rule we have plenty of reading materials  but just now are very short so you can  imagine that they are welcome. Since I last  wrote to you we have had another little stunt  but this time without any fighting, as the Turks  appear to have made a thorough exit. We  made a reconnaissance in force eastwards  leaving one night at 11 p.m. , our hope being  that we might round up a few of the  enemies patrols or see what he was doing.  We travelled all night & right on until 8 a.m.  when we were very glad to halt. The night was  at first pleasant but about 3 a.m. became  very cool as it tends to do in Egypt &  our outer clothes were quite weth with dew  (no rheumatism my dear) & we were glad when 
day broke & it became warmer though it is  generally uncomfortably warm at mid-day.  We first went over ground we had previously  been over & had traversed & fought over & passed  beyond it to new regions. The country  soon after daylight changed from the.  usual soft rolling desert with occasional  rises and depressions to an ismon  series  of enormous sand dunes which extend  for a great distance in this region, comprised  of very fine sand like flour in which  the horses sink almost to their bellies  & rising generally for 200 or 300 feet in  height & falling precipitously on the  Eastern side, in fact they are often so steep  that large detours must be made to  go round them. After braf travelling for  some miles in this country we came on  a few palm trees & there we rested &  fed our horses at 8 a.m. but we could  not water them as the only small  well had been filled in by the Bedouins.  One small Bedouin boy was captured with  some sheep & goats he was shepherding.  His father had been taken prisoner the previous  day by some New Zealanders I believe. He 
seemed quite happy & took some water we gave  him with great pleasure & chewed green dates  from the palms. All these Bedouins are being  taken in as they act as spies for the  Turks. They manage to live out here by grazing  sheep & goats on desert grass & watering them  in the wells in the hods & they gather the dates  when ripe & export them. They live in huts  made of palm leaves in rather a miserable  fashion & live I think mainly on dates  & the sheep & goats. We have seen many  of their huts mainly burnt down & have  found a good number of old dishes clothes Etc. belonging  to them. To continue the story - we rested until  midday then saddled up again turned North  & in this direction came out of the dunes  soon - very fortunately & caught a glimpse  of the Meditteranean, the first for many months  & then turned west again on our homeward  way arriving about 7 p.m. just about as  tired as you would wish to be. The last  six miles were the longest I have ever  travelled, We had tea & went to bed  & needed no rocking. I forgot to say that  our advance patrols sighted Turks in  the distance, but could not catch them. 
Later  I had to leave this letter & the 3rd sheet  vanished somewhere. Must finish now as  it is 7 p.m. & we rise at 3 a.m. tomorrow  for another small stunt. There is some  news - I received a telegram from the  A.D.M.S. that I was to report for  duty to the 3rd L.H.F. Ambulance  as soon as relieved by another medico.  This was to be today but he did  not turn up, but expect he will  arrive tomorrow so please address  letters there, 3rd L.H.F. Ambulance  (in full) is address enough but you  may add 3rd L H Brigade A.I.F. if you  wish. It is the same old address you  had at Anzac. It will be a change &  I want to get a good grip of Ambulance  work, as I have not had much experience  in it yet. Also it will please you as it  is less exposed to risk although the  regimental job is not very risky under  these conditions - different to France. the  slaughter there seems frightful. You  need not worry yourself at all about me  here my dear. I was rather pleased that  the Ambulance people asked for me & seemed 
anxious to have me there. The belt you  sent is a beauty my dear, (I mentioned it in the  lost sheet) & I am wearing it at present.  You would smile to see me writing this in  candle light, sitting on a biscuit box usi  writing on a rough table made of biscuit boxes  broken up and nailed on two beams supported  on oatbags filled with sandbags. We  are Our arbor is formed of a palmtree  whose leaves are drawn down & fastened at  the sides to more palm branches crisscrossed  & fastened in the ground. One part forms  our resting room in the day, another the mess  wherein is the above mentioned table.  Must finish & go to bed my dear.  Hope you are well.  Many thanks again for Billy &  to Harry for the books &  best of love from  your loving son  Wilf.