
Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 18 February 1918
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


18.2.18 My dear mother, I didn't get a chance to write yesterday so am trying to scratch off a few lines now before dinner. I leave tonight  for Moasca for a fortnight's military school, & don't expect to have a very good time as I understand that they keep the boys fairly busy. I have had a fairly strenuous week here during Col Dixon's absence on leave, but he returns tomorrow morning to take over. Jack wrote me a few lines this week - the first I  have had from him for a month or two & he seems in good spirits & well, but is quite out of my reach just at present & I expect will remain so for a few weeks more until we move again. I have been out visiting once or twice last week, one night I was invited to dine at one of the Yeomanry Regiments by their medico. All the Yeomanry were at one time composed of the pick of the English county families & a good number of their originals still remain with them, so that it is by the usual thing to meet several titled people in the Regiment. The mess I was invited to was quite a small one consisting only of the Colonel, Signal officer, medico & one of the squadron leaders. They were all very decent indeed & numbered one "Lord" in the party, but ofe one never quite breaks the crust  in one evening, & however pleasant the British officers are, & they usually are pleasant, we naturally feel more at home among 
our own Regiments. Still I spent an enjoyeable  evening though a quiet one. A couple of nights later, Murray Jones - the Veterinary staff officer here & I went over to the 9th Regt to dine & the evening was a great contrast. They had  a big Regimental mess including in it all the 26 officers in the Regiment & there were several visitors in addition to us including some from the 3rd Field Ambulance. They had a gramophone going & some of the younger members got up & danced to the tunes, giving exhibition  of Tangos twosteps & so on, then they started chorus  singing led by a fellow with a very decent voice so that we had quite a rollicking evening. They practiced "trench raids" too, three fellows sat themselves on a settee made of sandbags filled up  - built into the form of a couch, & challenged  the others to dislodge them. A tremendous scramble ensued & they all ended up very hot & perspiring. The evening was a very marked contrast  to the previous one. Last night a couple of the same  officers came over here to dinner - Major Daly & Macdonald,  the latter who was wounded at Rafa & brought back by our  Ambulance when I was there was invalided home & has returned again. We had a quiet game of cards &  amused them in that way, with the aid of a gramophone in addition. Murray Jones is a splendid fellow to entertain anyone, he is so full of spirits & talk & can go on indefinitely talking away & acting with it, so that we experienced no difficulty in keeping the party amused. I'm taking all sorts of furniture with me down to Moasca for a fortnight - sort of travelling circus, camp stretcher & mattress & everything complete. The trains out here have improved very much in the  last few months & one can get a fairly comfortable place to sleep, or endeavour to sleep in, on the trip Im I often wonder how you are progressing in or  about Sydney & whether you have fixed on a  spot yet. Perhaps it will not be necessary to build a new place; you might find something to suit you already built & fairly cheap. However I'm a useless beggar as I am though I would very much like to have a hand in the pie. News is scarce again my dear so must close with lots of love to all from  Your loving son Wilf.