Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 10 January 1918
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:



10.1.1918.  My dear mother, Another mail arrived today from Australia  bringing me a letter from you & a parcel of tobacco.  Our accumulated mails are all arriving at one time  now, lots of papers came also - Sydney Mails from  Ern, papers from Harry & several bundles of Candelo  records from you. What a pity Johnson should have  put in that mis-statement about myself gaining an  M.C. - he was confused apparently with another  Evans in France who obtained one. My chance of  obtaining that are now quite gone, though I know that  the recommendation which resulted in a mention in dispatches  were intended for something of the kind, though I should  not say it. At that particular time opportunity arose  xx which is not likely to re cur recur & the fact of  having done one's best is it's own reward without anything  further. A Sydney Mail arrived containing my photo  much to my surprise - how on earth did it find  it's way there? The others got hold of it & chaffed  me like fun at mess tonight with great  amusement to themselves & me. I was very sorry  to hear that you had received no mail from  me in so long a period as I certainly wrote each  week, but expect it was the result of sending 
our letters via England as we have heard they were  doing. There will be a gap however during the  November operations when I was unable to  write for some weeks. I do not require so  much tobacco as you are at present sending  my dear - I think that two packets or  tins a month will be quite sufficient & I can  easily get some kinds which I don't care as  much for in Egypt if it is not sufficient.  I must really insist, my dear, on your taking  enough money from my account or cheques to cover  the expenditure you are making & have made  on it, as I know what expenses you have  at present especially with every thing so very  expensive in wartime & I do wish you would  take ₤10-0-0 or so just to help on a  holiday or buy you something you need, my  dear or to cover some of your expenses  with the Shaw family, as I am earning  plenty at present.  If the war continues to go on, I shall make  an endeavour to come home as transport duty  or something of the kind before another year is  out, but goodness knows if it will succeed as one must always produce documentary evidence of good reasons for it - financial or otherwise & I don't see how I can do that. At any rate I will have a hard try at some future date but I hate making myself a nuisance to those in higher positions. Cheer up, my dear, you seem to have been in the dumps about the war in your last letter - it will all be right in the end. The  boys in France seem to have had a terrible time during October from all accounts we have had from Australia & France, & we must consider ourselves fortunate here. When I last wrote I think we were in the hills, we have now moved back for a spell stayed in a Jewish village for a day or two - billeted in houses & then marched on here to ___. We have a splendid camp now, proper bell tents to live in, camp stretchers & chairs to lie & sit on & a big E.P. tent for a mess. So we are once more living in luxury & enjoying it. Leave to Cairo will be on again shortly but I doubt if I will take advantage of it as it is hardly worth going for 3 days & there is little in Cairo to make oneself really enjoy things except to live in a hotel for a few days have hot baths etc & the change from the life in camp which is the main thing of all. 

12.1.1918 I went to bed & did not quite finish the letter two nights ago. Since then more of our accumulated mails have arrived - all kinds of papers from you & Ern Harry & Mab so I am at present very well supplied as it represents about two months mail all at once. I had a letter from Wesley yesterday, he has now gone to a Field Ambulance in France & said he felt quite strange to the work there as he had never been in an Ambulance before & always says that he wishes he was back with us here & so do I. I had a parcel from Coopers in Liverpool & don't know who is the sender - either Aunty Lily or Elsie Evans I think, at any rate it is very awkward as I don't know which one to write & thank. I am busy inoculating the staff here today against cholera - all the troops are inoculated once every three months as cholera occurs in Syria & it behoves us to take every precaution. The work of the medical services in war largely takes the form of prevention &  the results obtained speak volumes for it, as evidenced by the few cases of typhoid cholera & other preventable diseases which occur. My own work at present consists largely in supervising the sanitation & water supply. These are things whose you importance you do not realize in civil life, like many other things in war, but if you consider that thousands of men move into an area which has largely been camped on before & have to obtain their 
drinking water in that area you realize the difficulties which sometimes face us particularly when moving on  to ground which has previously been occupied by Turks or Bedouins with their usual dirty habits I must wish you this letter very many happy returns of your birthday my dear, & wish I were somewhere near a shop where I could get something to send you just to show you I am thinking of you. One of the fellows from here - Hughes from Melbourne left last night for Australia - his boat sails   tomorrow - lucky devil, but I think his father is away on war duty somewhere & there are lots of business matters which he has to re adjust so that he had the necessary excuse to take him home on leave particularly I think as during his father's absence his sister became married to some bogus doctor in Melbourne who was proved to be a fraud & then shot himself. Must close now mother mine with best of love & lots of hugs from Your loving son Wilf

Send these to Ern please - as usual -   All well Ern  Hope you and yours  are. Leah here.  Love H. It was my pal Jack referred to