Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 19 February 1917
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:

19.2.1917 My dear mother, Your two welcome letters (one registered & one unregistered of 28.12.16 & 4.1.17) safely to hand this week. And also the parcel my dear, which is a treat though I have not been able to open it yet, as I am away from the Ambulance for a few days & have not had a chance to get at it, but I know what mother's cake will be like. I don't like to hear of you sending away your good cake tins though, my dear as I know how handy they are for your little eatables. I unfortunately have only one of your letters here & not the one containing the cheque so I must wait until I return to camp to fill that in, but it won't make any difference as the mail doesn't close for ten days or so yet & you will probably receive this letter & my next at the same time. We can obtain tinned milk quite readily here my dear, so in case you do not send any more parcels it is just as well to omit it, as it is weighty & costs money to post. And please, my dear, don't worry too much about sending me things, as I know you have lots to do at home & I don't like to think of you overworking yourself to send me cake & now that Jack is away, & he will need things more than I, so don't trouble too much about me. I haven't told you yet what I am doing at present, well the Divisional Sanitary Officer is away on leave & our A.D.M.S. (chief medical man in the division who arranges our duties) told me to come up & relieve him during his absence, said it would be a little experience for me & so on. It is a very easy job though, the unit is a small one of 25 men & one has to supply sanitary materials for the division & go round inspecting the camps & stir up the medical officers & others if things are not all they might be. Captain Harvey Sutton is the man I am relieving & comes from Melbourne. He lives alone here & I think messes by himself as a rule but I ride over at mealtimes to the  stationary part of our Ambulance which is not far from here & eat there as I must say I like company. One morning however I stayed in bed for breakfast as it was cold, bed was comfy & there wasn't much to do. I brought my batman Smith along with me so I just told him I would stay in bed & be brought my tucker along. 
We couldn't do such a thing in the Ambulance so it was quite a treat. They all tease me now & call me "Dan Dan the Sanitary man", I reckon I'm a second "Thoms", in a different walk of life. But you have no idea, my dear, how very important sanitation is for the health of the troops, & the way which modern science has improved it. For instance Napoleon lost more than half his army in this very part of the country from Cholera & entire & here we have an army as healthy as can be solely from good sanitation. The only cases of Cholera we had were a few after the August fight when we had traversed country which the Turks had occupied & they were soon stamped out. Everyone is inoculated against cholera as well as typhoid so that not only are they not likely to get the disease but if they do get it, the form in which it occurs is not so serious. So you see Army medicine is  more applied to prevention than cure. You sometimes ask after my health, mother my dear & seem anxious about it. I wish you could see me & your doubts would be dispelled. I think I look fitter than I have ever done, & naturally so, as the weather is glorious and I spend a lot of time out in the open & have frequent swims, much riding, so the conditions are very favorable. Strange that you did not know why I cabled after the Battle of Magdaba, you must have missed seeing it in the papers, & I thought you would have seen it & been anxious. Jolly glad you didn't though, I am never certain of being in a position to send you a cable after a fight as we are often far away from cable centres but the chance came during the last two. I think it very possible that I may miss the next if there are any more here & of course we don't know if there will be any more. But if there is one in the next few months I think it most possible that I will be with our stationary part, nowhere near it, as it is my turn to go there, so you need not worry at all if any fighting does occur. Of course we may not have any fighting at all but war is an uncertain thing & one never quite knows what the other side may do, or at any rate the junior ones of the service don't. I am very glad that Jack came along in the Light Horse as Infantry in France seems to be a suicide club when they have those big pushes, the men 
in the firing line seem to have no chance at all. I called in to see worthy cousin John today, he was very pleasant & seemed glad to see me of course as Colonel of his Ambulance he is rather a big gun & sits in state at the head of the table. It seems quite different to Australian Ambulance, we laugh & chaff on Colonel on the same plane almost as ourselves but in the British Ambulances they seem to sit quietly round as if they were mummies & afraid to say anything. Well well my dear I think all topics are exhausted so I must return to bed with much love from  Your loving & sanitary son Wilf.  What is Jack's full address. You said he was a reinforcement to the 6th LH Regt. but I will want to know his number & what the number of his reinforcement is.