Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 22 September 1917
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:



22.9.1917  My dear mother, There isn't very much news again, but I must send you along a few lines to show that I am still thinking of you. By the way, that parcel arrived safely from the Candelo comforts Society & Jack's also. Would you please convey my thanks to them, they were very acceptable. I am using Florrie Collins piece of soap at present. I have not seen Jack for a few days as we have moved our position now & he is about 8 miles away so that it is rather inconvenient. In addition we are now in the front line & have a good deal of extra work to do, as there are reconnaissances frequently & then we have to do a good deal of  anti-mosquito work. In the Wadi Guzzi there are numbers of pools of water which form a very suitable breeding ground for Mosquitos & if the matter were not taken well in hand we would have a large outbreak of malaria as  these mosquitoes are the malaria carrying variety . So we have a constant  party at work, draining & oiling pools & grubbing out weeds to prevent their breeding. The weather is considerately cooler now night & at night grows quite chilly, so I am not looking forward with any pleasure to night marches. We had an awful day when moving camp, as there was a high wind blowing & the dust was simply awful & the work of pitching tents a terrible task. My batman was unfortunately away & I had a had time getting my bivouac fixed up. However we are all square again now & as comfortable as ever. The billycans  are not yet to hand, in fact we have had no mail from Australia for some weeks - I think the reason is that this mail was the first one to go round by England. 
It is wretched isn't it as it will take 6 to 8 weeks to get letters that way & there will be the risk of the boats being sunk. However we must put up with it as best we can. I must go I'm endeavouring to think of some news to tell you my dear, but I'm bothered if I can so I'm afraid I will have to draw to a conclusion. I am well & in good spirits, still with a good appetite so then is something to be thankful for. Jack bought a regular breeze from Australia with him, his head is still full of fat cows & sales & land - it is quite refreshing to hear some of it, as here we have been away so long that we have almost forgotten the existence of such things. Jack seems in good spirits & looks 
well - he takes more kindly to the life than I anticipated but like me wants the war to end & that quickly No more news my dear, very best of love & a hug from Your loving son Wilf. 