Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 6 December 1915
Regiment: 9th Light Horse
Location: Anzac Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


9th L. H. Regiment Anzac  December 6th 1915.
My dear mother,  I am writing under very different conditions  from last week as the snow has cleared away & the weather  once again gloriously fine & warm in the daytime with slightly  C cold nights. The snow lay on the ground for several  days, much longer than I have ever seen in Cooma except  on the main mountain ranges & while it remained the  days were very cold & the ground a veritable quagmire in  the day & a skating rink at night when it froze  Fortunately it has gradually become warmer & the ground  has dried so that today I am enjoying a splendid sun  bath. W Our Australian troops came through the trying cold  weather very well - I had only one case of frostbite  in my regiment & that not very serious, but we  are fortunate in our position on the hills as the water  drains away so quickly, but not so on the lowlying  ground towards Suvla Bay where the troops had  rather a bad time.  The Ghurkhas appear to have  suffered most severely & there were a good number  of cases of frostbite there amongst them, some very  severe I believe. Poor chaps, we all like the Ghurkas  they are such stout sturdy little chaps always  wearing a cheerful grin on their faces.
It is a very difficult thing to contend against, I mean frostbite, when men have to stand on observation  for a couple of hours at a stretch, when the trenches  are covered ankle deep in snow & slush & the  temperature nearly at freezing point, but we  do what we can. We are fixing up lines in the  cook houses for drying socks & all the men  have plenty of these thanks to the good people at  home & instructions are being given for greasing  boots & a xxx great number of Wellington  boots & waterproof capes issued.  Our  Australian Government certainly spares no expense  for the sake of it's fighting sons. We all appreciate  out here the goodness of the folk at home for the  way they have subscribed money & kind, which  are now arriving in the form of gifts for the troops  & are being distributed amongst them.  These small  luxuries are a delight to the men for although  they are fed excellently, the addition of some  different items to their diet gives them all & I  include myself an almost childish joy.  For instance  today the second instalment of Lady Hamilton's  gift stuff was distributed & each man received  two ounces of milk chocolate & some lollies, the  first we had tasted for many a day & it reminded 
me forcibly of the days when Mab & I walked  round the shops seeking where we could  get the largest number of sweets for our penny.  I am chewing them now & enjoying them. On a  previous occasion from the same fund, pickles, chutney  & sauce were given & formed a very welcome addition  to our fare. I also received in common with many  others a tin of Carbolic tooth paste which will be  useful later as I have only just started on mine the 3rd  & last tube I brought over with me, & a writing  pad containing envelopes which was just the thing  I wanted as my reserve stock of writing paper &  particularly envelopes was getting a little low. Then  we were given this week a large number of cigarettes  & very good ones too, the best I have had since  being over here, from a fund collected by the  British Overseas Club or rather the Australian  War Contingent Association in London associated  with the name of Catherine McBride which was  stamped on each cigarette - I think she is  an Agent General's daughter but am not sure.  I can well appreciate the sacrifices which are  being made by our home folk to provide so  large a number of men with gifts, & it must  be gratifying to know that they give so much  real pleasure.  During the cold snowy  weather of last week the seas became very rough & fresh meat & bread could not be landed in  consequence for nearly fully a week & we had therefore to  resort to the supplies of bully beef & biscuits  on the Peninsula & you can imagine the  rejoicing today when bread & fresh meat came  along again. The seas were so rough that  several jetties were washed away & several  trawlers were sent ashore at the Island of  Imbros from where we appear to get our  supplies. A party from our brigade had gone  across to buy canteen stores there & had  some exciting experiences, one lot spent four  days on a small trawler unable to land & having  only the clothes they stood up in on their backs  & half the stores they were bringing back were  washed away, so I suppose we will pay  rather heavily for the remainder but that is  of little consequence as we can spend so little  here.  I think some of this party went from  island to island with an interpreter to buy  stuff from the Greeks so I expect they will  bring a good deal back, or rather have brought  some already as it is being distributed now.  I am now comfortably established in my new dugout  & dressing station & am very pleased with it.  We dug a big square outer do out of the side  of the hill, or the stretcher bearers dug it to be accurate 
made the front wall of sandbags & partitioned  off part with sandbags for my room & then roofed  the whole with a tarpaulin. My door - formed by  a rubber sheet leads directly into the dressing  station so that it is not necessary for me to  go outside in order to attend to anyone in the  station.  My room is about two yards wide, four yards  long, has several biscuit & ammunition boxes let into  the sandbag partition to hold my clothes, has a  stretcher supported by sandbags about 2 feet from the  ground underneath which I keep the "medical comforts"  for any sick men I keep up here - arrowroot cornflour  condensed milk, jellies, flour, sugar, pea soup, bovril,  golden syrup - I have a box at the head of the  bed for my lamp books etc which I may read when  under the blankets the butt of a sandbag attached  to the wall in easy reach for smoking materials, so that you see it is all very convenient. In the  dressing station we have put in a stove for the  winter, formerly we boiled our water for foments &  dressings outside & my two men cooked their meals  outside, but the approach of winter weather made  it necessary to have more warmth inside, so we have  cut out a piece of the earth wall big enough to  hold an oil drum, then made a chimney by digging  down from above until we met this hole & then  fashioned the oil drum as a stove by cutting out  part of the end & connecting that to the chimney 
& perforating  one  the upper side (it is laid flat) to stand  in order to allow the heat to go through on the  pots & cut out a piece in front for admission  of wood.  It works beautifully & smokes  very little indeed.  I am sending you a cable  today for Xmas, just received an acknowledgement from the Cable company at Alexandria re my   last to say that it had been received by  them on Nov 16th - so you see it takes a letter  sometimes nearly three weeks to come from Alexandria here.  I hope you are all well & in good  spirits as I am, particularly since  the weather mended & we got back  to bread & fresh meat (you've no idea  what a large part ones stomach plays  over here - I fear this has been a very stomachy  letter).  Best of love to all & a double  share for mother from  Her loving son,  Wilf.