Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 30 August 1918
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: France
Nationality: Australian

Text:


30.8.1918.  My dear mother, I have missed some days in writing to you this week as we have been on the move & letter writing has been postponed from day to day. In addition my writing paper has run out & I have to use this scribbling stuff. Since I last wrote to you, I think, I wrote out my application for leave to Australia & a day or two later Col Downes was visiting our x Divisional headquarters & drew me aside. He told me as I had already heard that I was already down on the list to go in turn but practically said that if it was urgent I could go on the boat which recently left & carried y my last letter to you. He did not say this in so many was words but I gathered it from his conversation. He was very decent indeed about it, as he has always been with me, but & went on
to say it would be rather awkward if I went just now as Col Dixon had only recently left & it would rather upset things if we were both away at the same time or at any rate so soon after one another. I said that I didn't want to hurry it too much & could wait if he wished until Col. Dixon returned in two or three months, & that all I wanted was to hold out some definite hope to you that I would be able to go home. shortly say in two or three months time. He said that I could surely do that so there you are my dear. Cheer up. I may be home for Xmas yet, in fact I'll be surprised if I'm not. We are quite a long way from where I last wrote as we were relieved & are now in rest. I arranged things very well, as I motored to Jerusalem & waited there until our people had arrived here & then joined them. I stayed with a rest camp there which is formed by one of our Ambulances & is situated in an old monastery where the patriarch of Jerusalem used to live. He was taken away by the Turks & his house furniture & all is occupied by the rest camp with the addition of a number of tents. I was very comfortable there & enjoyed the few days I spent in it. The day I arrived at Jerusalem I lunched at the Jerusalem hotel, met four of the nurses from our hospital on a visit to Jerusalem also, had a few words with them after lunch, as they not too many as I wasn't very interested & trotted away to the Rest Camp. The house is beautifully situated in the German portion of the city in large grounds of it's own & surrounded by a number of trees & vineyards. There is an old Greek church next to the house over the burial place of St Simeon & there still remain a couple of Greek priests who chant weird dirges several times daily. There is also a German woman living in the next place whose husband is a Syrian med doctor in the Turkish army & at present in Beirut. She has a couple of pretty kiddies & of course is mournful about things generally. Her mother who was with her until recently has been sent to Cairo with all other Germans, but this one left as she, being married to an Ottoman subject is treated as one & remains in Jerusalem. She still has a mother in law with her but seemed pretty miserable & I don't wonder - poor thing. There are lots of cisterns for water about the house, with a tremendous storage capacity as it was on this that they depended for their water supply of before the war & they are all full of mosquito larvae & our fellows have contracted a good deal of malaria there. So "yours truly" used a net at night & advised them to oil all the wells & I think the fellow in charge is doing so. I made several attempts to leave Jerusalem & join the Division but was not successful until the 3rd time. The first time, x the car I was in went wrong - "stuffed the hut" the driver said though I don't suppose that makes you any wiser. The next time we got a few miles on our way when another car tried to pass us & the silly driver in charge of it, for some unaccountable reason switched across the front of our car striking our front wheel & caused us to topple over the edge of the road down a bank. It rather made some mess of the car as it fell several feet but we were all fortunately unhurt save for a few bruises though the driver got rather scared, as when we extricated ourselves we found him pinned to the ground, as a seat had just managed to fall on his neck & he was bearing most of the weight of the car. He looked & certainly was a most scared man until we relieved him of his troubles. We were fortunate as we might have come off much worse. We had to leave the car where it was & go back again to Jerusalem continuing our way next day. We have a beautiful camp site just now situated among some olive trees with a splendid view comfortable mess, all our baggage here & we are enjoying life. I have even a mattress on my camp stretcher so I'm in the lap of luxury. Before we left the valley Jack came to see me - he had only arrived there the previous day & he spent the evening with me in my tent. We had a little supper - biscuits you had sent me, me tea & some lime juice & soda etc. & talked about everybody & everything in general. He looks well & feels quite an old soldier now, is anxious to get some leave to Cairo too I saw Willie Shaw at the Ambulance today, he looks well also - last time I saw him in the Jordan valley he had a touch of sandfly fever & wasn't too well but he is very fit again now. That influenza which is raging in Europe has reached here & is travelling rapidly through most places & a lot of people have had it here. Fortunately I have escaped so far & hope to do so altogether -I generally manage to dodge things with a little luck & a little management & hope to avoid this too. I must bring this long- winded scrawl to a close my dear hoping you are well & taking care of yourself so as to be very fit when I come home, with lots of love from Your loving son Wilf