Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 2 October 1915
Location: On board Seang Choon near Island of Rhodes
Nationality: Australian

Text:


The splashes are by no means tears merely drops of water from  a glass (1)  On board Seang Choon Near Island of Rhodes 2.10.1915  My dear mother, I am writing again within a few days of my last letter also written aboard this ship before leaving Alexandria which I fear may not have reached you as we omitted to get the official stamp on it before posting & it may not go through or else be delayed by censor. I hope sincerely that you did receive it as I gave therein my main reasons for coming here. We have had a delightful trip so far, the sea is as calm as a mill pond, the ships a good one & it's officers splendid fellows. We left Alexandria about twelve o'clock yesterday & came straight out to sea. I don't think I gave you my impressions of that city in the brief time I spent there - it appeared much more of an English type than Cairo. the streets are excessively narrow as in all Eastern towns, apparently about half the width of Pitt street & the houses usually about 4 stories in height. Many more people speak English than in Cairo, & European dress is more generally worn, the typical tarboosk, or little round red cap of the Egyptian native is not nearly so much in evidence. The city is situated absolutely on the sea, part of it being on the ocean - the hotel where we stayed was situated practically on the ocean beach, & part of the city resting on the harbor not far away - the harbor being formed by a kind of peninsula with a breakwater added to it, the entrance being only narrow & protected from submarine craft by defences
which I suppose I must not attempt to describe. The harbor is not a very large one, but appears well protected & is almost full of ships of all kinds. Most of the largest of I think this is censorable so I will cut it out. I did not tell you that we arrived  about four oclock at Alexandria reported to the General  & were told to embark that night - I managed to  enquire of the whereabouts of our cousin Major John Evans  & found that he was at Suvla Bay at Gallipoli. We  proceeded leisurely to the wharf & drove round  for a while without finding the ship amongst  many & were overtaken by a despatch rider who  told us that she was just about leaving & that  we should hurry back & a fast [[pimace?]] would be  waiting for us. We did so, found no [[pimace?]],  but abused many niggers & eventually hired  a sailing boat and sailed round the harbor  in search of the ship & at last found her.  I think I told you this before. This ship  is a hospital boat purely for Indians & is  run by members of the Indian Medical   Service many of whom have been in India  for many years. There is a Colonel, Major,  Captain, Lieutenant, very nice fellows all   of them. We have a very distinguished person  
aboard in Sir Victor Thorsley, one of the world's  authorities in brain surgery & of whom I had read  in my text books. He is such a nice man not  one of those who stands on his dignity & feels  that he is a big man but he talks to us  all easily & without assumption of superiority.  The food on board is excellent & she has a   good sitting room on the boat deck & a   dining room on the promenade deck &  a very comfortable spot to sit out on.  The hold is turned into a hospital & a long  line of beds stretches from stern to stern  she has also accommodation for wounded  above this & on the decks & a nice little  operating theatre. She can accommodate  500 if necessary. We expect to arrive at   Lemnos Island tomorrow at midday  which is the base for operations on Gallipoli  & there we report to the A.D.M.S (Assistant Director of  Medical Services) & will probably proceed to Anzak.  We have been in sight of Islands today for the most  part, if you look at a map you will see  islands dotted along Asia Minor - Rhodes near   which a boat was torpedoed, Carpathos &  numerous others. Talking of maps reminds   me of how we looked at a map before I left & you were easy only when you saw what a   distance Egypt was from the fighting. It seems strange  that I should willingly go from the safety of  Egypt to Gallipoli & cause you so much anxiety  when I would wish to shield & protect you from it.  But it is one's highest obligation in life to do his  duty & it is undoubtedly known it is mine to go over  here. I hope you receive my other letter in which I  explained my reasons fully. But briefly I could  not stay in Egypt when men are wanted at Gallipoli  to help the sick & wounded there because there is  some slight risk - the latter should be a   greater incentive to going. Old & married men  should not be expected to go. The risk is  moreover not very great, few Australian  medicos have been injured. But no matter  what happens, I hope to have done my   duty & that will compensate you my dear for  all the years of selfsacrifice & devotion you  have spent on me & for which I could  never thank you sufficiently, except perhaps  by a love that can only be quenched by death  But my dear I feel that all is going to be well.  I am in God's hands & He will guard me for  your sake & bring me safely back to you again.  My very best love to all & specially to mother from  Her loving son, Wilf.