
Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 11 November 1918
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Tripoli 
Nationality: Australian

Text:
 Tripoli, 11.11.1918 (Syrien
My dear mother, I hope you like the writing paper captured in the local town, it is certainly a very fortunate discovery as my supplies were becoming short. The rainy season has commenced again & you may imagine me squatting inside a little bivouac & hoping the wet wont come in. Since I last wrote we have left Damascus & have travelled in all about 160 miles. When I last wrote I knew we were leaving but of course could not say so. We moved out of Damascus in a Northerly direction & reached Homs on the way to Aleppo & 100 miles North of Damascus in 4 days. Other troops had preceded us to Aleppo & we were on our way to give a hand in cleaning  matters up in that region. But very fortunately the day before we reached Homs, the news came through that Turkey had asked for & been granted an armistice. So our journey ended at Homs & we remained there for a few days. It was very fortunate for us too that the armistice was concluded as we were continuing our march northward at the rate of about 25 miles a  day & there is no fun in that for anyone. After spending a few days at Homs we were ordered to Tripoli where we now are - on the sea coast about 60 miles North of Beirut, in order to render the supply problem easier, as you may imagine the  task of supplying us with rations 100 or 200 miles away from landing places & railways is no easy matter. The motor lorry is a marvellous piece of mechanism & it takes hundreds of them to keep divisions supplied at great distances from their bases. When we left Damascus we travelled at first through open plains covered with vineyards & then entered the Eastern slopes of the Lebanon ranges by a narrow pass which wound round between steep hills on either side. The gorge which it followed opened out to a cultivated basin some 30 miles from Damascus at a place called Kuteife & here I stayed a day or two evacuating our sick back to the hospitals in Damascus by means of motor Ambulances. Leaving this basin we gradually ascended the slopes of the outer Lebanon until we reached Nebk a village nearly 5000 feet above sea level. It is a pretty country town containing about 3000 Mohammedans & 1000 Christian Syrians. Wandering through the town in search of eggs & grapes, I was accosted by some children who wanted to sell me some. They spoke English & I went in to buy some eggs & was immediately surrounded by quite a large family of English speaking Christians who were all very excited about our arrival. There were three blind women in the family & they were conducting a school of little girls & boys in English. It was the remnant of the mission which had existed in the town four years previously & which had been swept away by the tide of war. These women however had kept the remnants together & you can imagine their joy at being released from Turkish rule. They had quite a number of bright faced girls & boys in the school & I had to ask them questions about geography & so on. Then the teacher made them sing a hymn to me in  English & it did sound quaint to hear it in a foreign town in the midst of this country which we have always associated with Mohammedanism. I bought some eggs from them & gave them all the sugar I had &  most of my tea as they were the chief things they desired. They haven't seen sugar for years. From Nebk I pushed on to Homs picking up sick on the way & was very glad to reach it. The last days march was 46 miles for the men as there was not sufficient water for the horses en route so you can imagine how tired they were when they arrived at last. Homs is quite a big town, has a tremendous mosque, a Protestant church (Presbyterian too I believe) & quite a few decent buildings. But it was dirty & the houses "buggy' too & I was glad that we camped outside the town. It is a most malarious place also & we were not sorry to leave it. We moved down here to Tripoli in fairly easy  stages - the first part of the way over stony barren hills, but later descending to the coast over magnificently fertile well  watered slopes. Glorious country it is & should be rich & prosperous instead of being poor & full of a starving population. Give me Australia though there is too much malaria in it for me. One day we camped along the seashore, a lovely site for a camp, & didn't we enjoy the sea bathing though the season is rather late. Our permanent camp is on the hills overlooking Tripoli, among huge olive groves. The mountains of Lebanon are behind us - magnificent peaks rising sheer upwards from these foothills, their peaks wreathed in mist & in places covered in snow, - below is the sea & the white roofs of the town of Tripoli. At present a couple of tramps & a white hospital ship are lying in the roadstead. Just as at Gallipoli sick must be taken off to them in go flat bottomed barges as the only two ports on this coast are Beirut & Alexandretta. I received a letter from you this week & a parcel of tobacco which is very welcome indeed. Keep up your spirits my dear, the war news is glorious & I should be able to get home among the first batches. Just today a number of the men who came out in 1914 left for Egypt & Australia on furlough & they deserve it too. Lucky beggars - I had hoped to leave by this but expect my turn will come very shortly now. 
Just at present there is great shortage in medicos as such numbers of then got malaria this time. My old friend & rival Colin Anderson has it & so has Single & lots  of others. We passed through some very bad  patches of country in the early stages of these operations & they got it there. I'm thankful to say that I escaped it - of course I took precautions - carried a net the whole time as  I knew the country was bad & just at present I'm  fairly blossoming, putting on weight fast. I lost  a little weight during the summer in the Jordan valley & during the operations specially after influenza but my! you should see me now again my tunic is beggining to burst with fatness. Well well I hope I'm just as fat when we have that happy reunion in Lindfield a few months hence my dear. Now don't work too hard, get yourself in good condition for my return & what a time we'll have won't we just! Lots of love to alf all from Your loving son Wilf. & a little extra bit for mother.

I hope to go out to the hospital boat tomorrow & post  this on board in hope of catching this post to Australia.
