Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 19 August 1915
Location: Zeitoun Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:



Zeitoun,  August 19th, 1915.  My dear mother,  I was a little lazy  this week & did not write my letter early  & then found that the mail went earlier  than I anticipated & missed it,  which has annoyed me very much as you  will have a long gap with no letter &  get anxious. I have now been here one  month or more & have not yet received  a single letter, although some of the  fellows have received several by different  mails. Postal arrangements here are  vile as far as I can see, & strong  language might be used about them  - I know you have written & hope  that you are addressing correctly  to No I Australian General Hospital  Helipolis. Egypt. However other  fellows besides myself have suffered,  one man married only three months  before leaving has had no letters though  he receives cables all right. It's  abominably disappointing though to 
go over when a mail comes & see others  receiving them & get none oneself.  However I suppose they will come in  a budget later. I went out last Sunday  with Major Norris who is in charge here  to intending to visit the famous museum,  & so we duly took tram into Cairo  & then engaged a garry to drives  us to the Museum. We kept driving  on & on for a long time past the  Ghezerah Hospital which I have  before mentioned on the other side of  the Nile & then through the gardens.  We wondered if we were going in  the right direction so we queried  the driver who spoke no English  but signified that we were going  in the right direction. So we sat  back & for a long time drove on & were  at last deposited not at the Museum  but the Zoological gardens. The  word Museum had meant such to  him. Well to make the best of a bad  job we alighted & went in & were very  pleased that we did for they have  there the finest collection of guns  animals that  I have ever seen. There were elephants 
giraffes which were much larger & taller than I had anticipated, monkeys in abundance, jackals, hyenas, lions, tigers in fact any old thing you would like to mention. We had tea at the refreshment room which overlooks a pond covered with a water lily which flowers very well, has a blue tinge &  makes the place very gay. Unlike the Barage the tea was beautiful & we had very nice cakes, & being an excessively hot day we thoroughly enjoyed it. The gardens at the zoo are beautifully kept & are green with flowers & shrubs scattered about.  We sought another garry after finishing the zoo & returned to Cairo & I went on to Kirk while the others came out here to dinner. I thoroughly enjoyed the sermon, it was one of the most thoughtful & well connected sermon I have heard for a long time.  I did not feel inclined for anything to eat after service so went to Heliopolis and looked for Wesley but could not find him so came on here & then had a little dinner as it was still to be had.
Later 21.8.15 I learnt today my dear, that no mail leaves until the 2nd of September so that means that you will be a month or nearly so without a letter for which I am deeply grieved.  I understand that mails go only about 3 times in a month & that there is an interval of a week between two of them & a fortnight between the other & I unfortunately missed the one before the long gap.  I had better cable you I think in about a months time or a little less so that you will not be over anxious Week end cables go for about ¼ rates so are not so very expensive if sent that way.  I have at last succeeded in getting a horse for myself, although it has taken almost a month to do it owing to military red tape.  However I succeeded in obtaining an order this week & went down to the remount depot at Abassiah some three miles away to pick one.  I borrowed a nag & was accompanied by a groom from here to bring it back & managed to pick up a lieutenant who was going down to the soldiers' detention barracks (where any soldiers who commit offences are punished) on business.  So we formed 
quite a cavalcade but succeeded in getting a nice little nag.  They have generally between 5000 & 6000 horses there, though I believe that their numbers have been reduced lately as some have been sent  probably to the Dardanelles where for a long time they have had no use for horses.  They are tethered in great long lines covered by a kind of matting roof, & secured by their head & one heel. They sound a bugle at feeding time & all the horses know the particular call & make a frightful fuss as soon as it is blown - neighing & jumping round. By the time we returned it was after one o'clock & we were tired & hot.  Today being Saturday I managed to have a run out in company with Major Norris and Lieutenant Murray from here & this time actually succeeded in finding the museum & explored it.  It is a new building of good appearance from the front but very bare from the back. There is a most wonderful & interesting collection of Egyptian curiosities there which have been dug out & classified after years of patient research.  To the ordinary sight seer & I fear that I come under that classification the mummies are the most interesting features though I was really more taken by the glorious carving & sculpture works.  You remember the plates on the back of many Bibles representing these carvings of numerous  figures fruit furniture etc, those give only a poor idea of the excellence of the original The amount of detail is marvellous & the illustrations in many cases are accompanied by writings to comment on them.  There are huge carved statues representing men who lived in past ages about three times the ordinary size of man - beautifully done although the hands & feet tend to be rather square and spade like in most cases with abnormally long fingers & toes. The amount of work on the outer coverings of the corpses which are somewhat like coffins is tremendous, the whole thing being covered in many cases with hundreds of tiny drawings & generally on top a model of the deceased face & all complete.  There are specimens of the sepulchres also, great solid stone arrangements with huge stone lids.
The mummies are to most people the most interesting objects though I did not find them so - the carving appealed to my taste to a greater extent.  They are in many  cases taken out of their wrappings to a great extent & are withered shrivelled up objects not particularly pleasant to look on, reminded me forcibly of my old dissecting days. It is strange that on Sunday evenings about teatime or church time my thoughts turn to Candelo more than at any other & I can see the little church with the funny  little parson with his vagaries of speech & all the old familiar faces & you & father in the same old seat.  Then I wonder how you are whether you are very lonely & sad & grieving about me being so far away & hope to heaven that it is not so & that you are quite reconciled. The unfortunate part is that letters are so erratic & one cannot hear how you all are. I have not managed to write to any of the family yet but as you are sending the letters round I am sure they will pardon it.  I have not yet been able to buy anything to send 
along, the reason being that one will assuredly pay exorbitant prices for shoddy articles if he does not know the value of things & I have not yet been able to get the services of anyone who does.  There are curios to be had at the museum at which I was looking yesterday which I think you would only appreciate by throwing them in the fire - little carved figures of wood really models of the real things in the museum but some of the others might like them.  There is a bazaar here where silks & such things can be obtained - I must try to get some soon if I can get to know the inside running.  I have to send a present to Cappita Job for her wedding too.  I think my dear I will close this letter & post it so that I may catch the mail without doubt & if no other goes before September 2nd I will write another & you will get them together. Much love to all including Suey & her old man, Harry and Ern and their respective old women, farmer John father bigger, & a special share for mother from her loving son, Wilf.