Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 28 May 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


28.5.1916. My dear mother,  Once again I commence my letter to  you, on a Sunday afternoon this time although there  is little to remind one in these regions that it is  Sunday save that the men do less work & we have  a church parade. Still there is not the same restful  feeling of the Sunday at home, probably because my  own work goes on much as usual & occupies no  very great length of time at that. Last Sunday  Wesley & I rode into the XXXXXX & had a dip (I  forgot & had to censor myself) & again a couple  of days ago. It is rather a long way to ride  in though the bathing is very enjoyiable. We don't  seem to mind coming back as we are cooled down  & it is later in the evening but it is generally  rather warm riding in. We have commenced  playing bridge in the evenings now & find it a  very pleasant method of passing the time. Until  recently we had not enough players but some  officers came in from some outlying posts & filled  up the required four. I am now looking after  the health of a small British company near here  in addition to my own people & it helps to occupy time. 
& keeps me out of mischief. Rumor has it that  our last mail went on to France by mistake - I   hope not or it will be a very long time before we  receive it. We would all like to follow it on there   as I'm sure we would prefer the chance of bullets  & shells to this desert but we must all stay where our  services are most required. My leave to Cairo was  refused by some one in high office who did not know  or care much about the facts of the case but another  channel is open & I hope to use it soon. I want to   go there & get some of that brassware to send   along, very much, but must wait my chance. I  suppose the weather is cold at home now - I can   imagine those cold frosty mornings & the fire in   the evening in the dining room & wish that I   could join you, but I can do so in spirit &  hope to do so in the flesh before the next  cold spell. I do wish my dear that I had  some news to tell you but have none save that  I am very well & kicking thankyou & hope that   you & all the family are the same, with best of   love to all & mother usual share from   Her loving son,  Wilf.