Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 26 June 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


26.6.1916.  My dear mother,  All the New South Wales people  appear to have had bad luck lately as  neither Wesley Bucklan or myself have had  any letters so the N.S.W. bag must have  gone to France or some other queer place,  so we must wait patiently for next mail.  I understand that the Orient boats go  round the Cape now consequently we  receive mails much less frequently  than formerly. I have very little to tell  you in this letter as matters go on in  so similar a way but Wesley has gone  away sick & left me rather forlorn.  He developed a bit of a temperature a  few days ago which increased & he  got what seemed a rather severe attack  of influenza & so I went to the  people at the Ambulance & suggested  moving him from the regiment & was  very glad when they decided to send  him to Ismailiah where there is a  good hospital & nice nurses to wait  on one. I think he will probably  be as well as ever in a couple of days 
& then have a jolly good time & the change  will do him a lot of good as  he was rather in a depressed mood  lately. His is one of those volatile  natures which responds readily to outside  influences making him very lively in good  company & so in the reverse he suffers a  good deal from the monotony of the desert.  So I think he was rather lucky getting  a bit sick as he will probably have  a good trip to Alexandria after it.  I myself am very well & in good  going order though I can hardly say  I am enamoured of the life. I had  a bit message the other day from the Ambulance  asking me how long I had held my  present rank & whether I had enlisted  for one year or the period of the war.  I wasn't sure but fancy that it was rather  indefinite - wished I could have said  one year but only a few important  people A were able to do that, so I  replied that I didn't know how long  I had enlisted for but that I had
held my commission for over twelve  months - & I might have added  that I wouldn't mind how  soon the war ended. The health  of the men is remarkably good out  here & I send away very few sick   - we pride ourselves of course that the  inoculation for typhoid etc & good   sanitation are largely responsible  but even though the climate is hot  here & the nights very dewy it is  apparently healthy in this land of  the burning sun, & epidemics apparently  do not flourish easily in an  isolated camp like ours. We have a   lot of sores of various kinds to treat  though, particularly since the summer  commenced as apparently every small  abrasion becomes more or less septic  & the heal only with difficulty.  Still the treating of them gives us  something to do & keeps us interested.  My direct chief the A.D.M.S. of this  division (Assistant Director of Medical  Services is what those letters signify)  told me recently that the number of  sick we evacuated from here was 
extraordinarily low & too good to last   - but I hope not. Well well, my dear,  no more news so must close  with love to all & a double share  to mother from  Her loving son,  Wilf.     P.S. Please don't let any newspaper  men get hold of any little clippings  from the above