Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 1 October 1917
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


1.10.1917.  My dear mother, No Australian mail yet & I suppose you find it exactly the same in regard to mail from Egypt. Since I last wrote we made a small reconnaissance, which I spent under more favorable conditions than at any time previously, as I went out & returned in a motor Ambulance, & used the same as a bedroom at night & office by day, so that altogether I had quite a good time. We had a primus stove aboard x So we had plenty of tea. Colonel Dixon, my chief & I went out in a car looking at different places & succeeded in getting our car stuck in several places & being 
compelled to use our own powers to push the motor instead of being pulled by it. However we got back all right which was the main thing. I took a lamp & book out with me, so at night after conversing for a while with some other officers turned in comfortably & went to sleep. Since the stunt, I had a rather heavy day going round my "mosquito area" with the chief insect man from our General Headquarters, that is the Headquarters of all the troops out here. The man who came round is a Major Austin who is the Entymologist at the  British Museum & knows all there is to be known about all manner of insects including mosquitos & we went for miles up the wadi & at every pool he stopped, fished out about a dozen different scoopfulls of water in a kind of long porridge ladle & examined each for mosquito larvae. At the end I was rather tired of it, & glad to come home to tucker. However he showed me some interesting worms & things in the water & the day was not altogether lost particularly as he seemed rather please with the work done. We are leaving for another little "stunt" in a few minutes & I am just scribbling off a few lines before going, as although we expect to be back tonight we will be rather tired tomorrow & probably busy. The weather is improving very much now, & the nights are quite cold, the days warm & bright, just a little too hot in the morning. We do get rain in these parts in the winter months - none falls in summer, so now it is just one hour and  waste cut up to fine dust in most parts by the horses. In this month October the average rainfall is 0.4 inches, but ^the next four months have an average of about four inches each, & it  must be a great deal more in the hills judging from the appearance of the deep wadis or gullies which intersect the country in all directions & which prove such an obstacle to traffic at times. In a well ordered country in peace time, you cannot realize the difficulties of transport in wartime, in an almost roadless country where the chief transport has  been by camels & donkeys. Motorcars have a very bad time, as they frequently stick fast in a sandy patch &  require pushing out or may come to a wadi with such steep sides that it is impossible to get down. Even ordinary wheeled traffic has great difficulty as the tracks become so heavy from being cut up by a large numbers of vehicles that four horses in a huge wagon laden with supplies have a tremendous task. And they also meet impassable wadis. Coming back from the 2nd battle at Gaza we had only one crossing over the wadi for one particular body of troops & you would be surprised to see how they accumulate, when guns & wagons & ambulance carts & camels are all passing along over the same road at the same time. A London policeman would be in his element in such a spot. An airfight took place overhead yesterday but we could not see the final result, though  the last we saw, was the picture of four of our machines chasing a German towards his own territory & machine guns going furiously - I think the German had rather a hot  time. I have not seen Jack for some time, not since we came to the front line, as  he is now some miles away & I have been busy. I have rambled on this time my dear & must now close with very best of love from Your loving son Wilf. I have just received word by wireless of Maude's victory over the Turks again - good luck to him. 