Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 1 July 1917
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:



1. 7. 1917 My dear mother, Your very welcome letter of 8.5.17 safely to hand today, also a couple from Jack, one written from Australia & one from Moasca after his arrival in Egypt. He was probably there when I passed over in aeroplane. I fear that I will not be able to see him for some little time as I have just had leave & there is that frightful railway journey between here & the canal. Still I expect he will be sent out here before very long, if not I will make a big effort to get leave & go down to Moasca to see him. I was awfully sorry to hear of Mrs Ellis' trouble, it is just another illustration of what is happening the world over at present through this insane war. I am very sorry also. So father's eczema still troubles him. I wonder if an ointment such as the following would do him any good. 
It might be worth trying. I am very glad to hear that you feel well yourself & hope you will have more assistance in the house before this - you said last time you only had Mrs Rogers to wash & iron - that must in itself be a big job!! We are jogging on here as usual - our second in command Major Whitford has been transferred to another unit, we are all sorry to lose him as he is a very good fellow It may mean however that I will receive promotion, very possibly, I think as I am just about due. Did I tell you that I met Colonel Dounes on the Cairo station - he is the head of the Australian medical service in Egypt, & was very complimentary  in his remarks - said it was a shame that I had not received a decoration as I richly deserved one & so on. I said that wasn't what I came over for, but he said there were plenty  of people with Military Crosses etc. who deserved them far less. That is just for your information, my dear, & not general circulation as I know you are always pleased to hear anything of the kind. I fancy you have very little idea of what an Ambulance consists of, as you thought a little time ago that we had only one officer - there are six officers - Colonel, Major, & 4 Captains, and about 120 men & we carry the wounded for a Brigade, consisting of 3 Regiments each of which has it’s Regimental medical officer, as when I was with the 9th Regt We have a certain number of ambulance carts, some motor Ambulances attached now that the soil is harder, certain bearers to carry in wounded to the carts, tents with tent division of men to dress wounded & so on. We collect wounded in battle, or sick in ordinary times from the Regiment & convey them to the rear & on to a casualty clearing station We treat a certain number of slightly sick cases in the Ambulance & send back the more serious ones. I don't think I mentioned that I had received safely the tobacco - thanks very much, please take the amount from my cash, my dear, as you there is plenty & you have enough calls on you I believe if I pressed the matter I could get a transfer back to base hospital for a while as I have been in the field now for a couple of years & some of the men are being changed over. However I think I won't apply just yet as I don't care much for the hospital in Cairo, particularly in Summer. Possibly next winter you might like a trip over to Egypt - it's a fine place in winter & I could then get a transfer back to hospital. The only trouble is that it is very difficult for women to get into Egypt now, the Colonel here has been trying for a long time to get his wife over without success, and of course you don't seem very anxious to travel at present. Still there are two of us here now & the trip across the Indian Ocean is quite a safe thing. There are lots of Australian ladies in Cairo working at Red Cross things about the hospital & so on. It is worth thinking about anyhow. I went out to dinner a couple of nights ago to Divisional Headquarters - they have a very good mess & well served. Of course the place is a mass of red tabs, as we call them as all members of the staff wear red gorget patches and arm badges, but they were a very decent lot of fellows. We hope to go back from the front  line shortly for a spell at the sea again & are looking forward to it very much as it is hot & sweltering now, though still not nearly so trying as last year. No more news my dear, best love to all & a good big hug for mother from Her loving son Wilf.

Wilfred June & July/17 