
Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 22 November 1918
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Lenanon
Nationality: Australian

Text:

22.11.1918. My dear mother I must settle down this morning & try to write you a short letter as since our last operations I have become rather irregular in my writing habits & time tends to slip away without one realizing it. Many thanks for the cake from the Civil Service which arrived in very good order & was greatly appreciated. We have now settled down to camp routine & have tents once again so that we shall be reasonably comfortable in spite of weather conditions. The weather which was so unpropitious when I last wrote has now cleared up & we have had a succession of glorious days. Now that the war is to all intents & purposes finished, I cannot take very much interest in things military & am only anxious to get home again. I wrote to Col Downes again putting up my case once more & he said he would do his best for me but could at present give no dates. So I don't quite know how matters stand at present, as I have nothing definite to go on. Still I think a month or two now ought to do it with any luck & if I see the slightest chance I will rush it. Of course everyone is wanting to get home now & there is rather a rush on, but in any case I think I should be well to the fore. We are doing so little here at present that I feel that I am just wasting time & so am more anxious than ever. Since I last wrote you I went for a fine trip up to the hills of Lebanon from here. These huge mountains rise sheer out of the plain to a height of 10000 feet & from a distance look absolutely barren. Their tops are covered in snow too. But strange to say a motor road has been constructed right into the heart of them to a place called Bisheeri & in order to scale the heights it winds backwards & forwards in immeasurable loops with many sharp horseshoe bends. Instead of the barren country one expects to see, there is a rich land, & made rich solely by the exertion of the inhabitants. The Lebanese are almost all Christian & form a sharp  contrast to the Mohammedan peoples in their general habits & industry & their superior type of villages. Whole mountain sides where one would hardly think a goat could live, so steep & rocky are they, have been terraced & cleared & the small terraces thus made carefully plowed & sown with crop. It is difficult to gain any idea of it without seeing for ones-self, these hundreds of terraces supervening one on the other & converting a barren hill side to a fertile land. Innumerable villages most of them pretty & clean & surrounded with orchards and olive tree are dotted all along the road. The view as one mounts higher becomes truly magnificent, as the whole of the coastal plain is spread out at one's feet with the sea beyond it. Near Bisheeri is the last remaining group of cedar trees for which the Lebanon was once so famous, but as we obtained a good view of them from the road & it is a steep walk of about 3 miles to them I was quite content with the distant view. We lunched at what purports to be a hotel - Major Jackson an oldish Scotsman on headquarters here & I formed the party - & were charged a ruinous price for a very modest lunch. It is cooked in an adjacent room, the only means of heating being two small open braziers on which the pots are placed. Consequently the meal even for two took some time to prepare. We came back along another route round a tremendous gorge whose steep rocky sides dropped precipitously for hundreds of feet. The trip altogether must have been about 100 miles & I hardly think you would enjoy coming round some of the steep hair pin  bends in a car,  but it was on the whole a delightful outing. Since then we have been fairly quiet here not very much to occupy ourselves with & plenty of time to do it in. We are all hoping to be moved back to Egypt but of that there is no sign at present & it almost looks as if we are doomed for a winter here. However I hope not for yours truly. With any luck I hope to be away in a  couple of months at least. No more this time my dear, lots of love to all & mothers extra share from Her loving son Wilf.