Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 13 July 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:



13. 7. 16. My dear mother, I am a day or two late this week in writing as something seemed to prevent me sending my usual letter each day this week. The day after I received your wrote my last note I received your letter saying that you were going into hospital & needless to say I feel anxious about you as I never know how much you are telling & how much you conceal. I have for some time past felt that you were not well owing to the anxiety about myself & the fact that you had been for so long in Candelo without going away. I do indeed hope that it is nothing more than a nervous run-down & that you will speedily be returned to health under Dr Rennies able care. I am very anxiously waiting for the next mail & your letter. You need be under no apprehension as regards my safety at present. as there 
as nothing doing here at all - I wish there was a little more, as the monotony is worse than anything I think. The weather during the last few days has been rather uncomfortably warm but I seem fairly well acclimatized now & do not notice it very much. I think I shall apply for leave to Alexandria in a week or two but would like to wait until Wesley is convalescent enough to go there. He should be almost well enough now, but the difficulty is to communicate with him as letters to Cairo take a week owing to delays in various quarters. Alexandria is a very pleasant place in summer as it is cool & there is  good bathing & tennis & also good hotels. We all keep surprisingly well here, last month out of the whole regiment none were sent on to base hospital which is rather extraordinary. 
I have not been away from camp much since I last wrote to you as since Wesley's departure I don't  go to railhead (that was censorable) to see him & don't go swimming to the ___ However I rode in to  see the Ambulance people last week & may ride in again this afternoon & think I will go to the __ for a swim with one of our squadrons in a day or two as they go in almost every day leaving early in the morning & returning in the evening. I must surely go to Alexandria or Cairo soon as my stock of books is getting low & I must fill up again. The shops there are very good now & one can get all that he requires which is a great comfort. We had a visit from two Red Cross people this week, one named Phillcox from Adelaide & one Edginton from Manly, the latter having just come across & it was pleasant to talk to one who had just left Australia & could tell us the exact condition of affairs there now. We put them up for a couple of days & they seemed to enjoy their run round this part of the country. We took them round the defences & sent them off one day for a swim & they also did some business with me & are going to send me all sorts of red cross stuff for my sick men which will be very welcome. Sorry I have no interesting news my dear - I hope you are quite yourself again, best of love to all & a double share for mother from Her loving son, Wilf. 