Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 13 March 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:

9th Light Horse Regiment 13. 3. 1916. My dear mother, I'm afraid that my letter this week will be very uninteresting as a new set of censorship rules has just been compiled & are very strict so that I am unable to tell you anything about the state of things here & very little of what we do - which is really very little. I have had no letters from you for quite a time now though I know you have written but suppose that addressing them to Ambulance Egypt only has delayed them somewhat However I had one from Auntie Lily a few days ago, also a life from you & today a letter from Jack dated January 16th arrived & remarkable to say one of those original letters of yours of July 1st last year which has followed me all over these lands, & although it was so old it was pleasant to read. Still I am longing to hear how you are & if you & Mab are enjoying yourselves. The weather is gradually becoming warmer but is not unpleasant yet. By the way my dear I wish you would send me an occasional "Bulletin" as we appreciate its jokes out here although you may consider our tastes depraved. I brought some literature from Cairo with me & am at present reading a couple of Kingsley's works - "Ravenshoe" just now & am quite enjoying it. Wesley & I are now some miles apart & are unable to see each other as since I last wrote we have moved to a different spot. We had a trip to Ismalia together however some days ago & spent a very enjoyeable day there. We were going to a European club which is in existence there for lunch & dinner but were invited to lunch by some fellows we knew at the hospital. We did some shopping in the morning & in the afternoon walked round some very pretty gardens with fine old trees & beautiful grass & admired some old Egyptian sculpture work consisting of great slabs of stone with three figures carved in it the centre one a king & on either hand goddesses. We had afternoon tea with some nurses at the hospital & then drove in a garry to see some friends in one of the clearing hospitals. Archie Collins who was at Prince Alfred with us was there & we quite enjoyed our visit. He insisted on staying to dinner & afterwards 
had to depart very rapidly as time was limited, but we had a great confab about old times & enjoyed it. We are not blessed with a superabundance of water here & I succeed in bathing myself with the aid of a sponge in about half a pint. I continue in very good health & am in good spirits, have a few sick men to attend to & some sanitation to overlook which occupies the mornings. Then after lunch I have /a pipe & a book & read or doze until about four o'clock when tea comes along. Otherwise my dear I have practically no knews to tell you for the reasons explained above. How time flies - it is almost nine months since I left Australia - I am now becoming quite an old soldier, & sincerely hope that the war will be happily ended before another similar period is passed & I happily meeting you at home again. Cheer up my dear all will yet be well with love & good wishes to all from Your loving son, Wilf.