Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 13 June 1918
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Nationality: Australian

Text:



13.6.1918
My dear mother Another mail has arrived & two more letters from you. I was sorry to hear that you were not going to Lismore as I'm sure you would have enjoyed it, but I can imagine how anxious you are to get into your new home & I'm sure you will like Lindfield What excitement there has been over War Loans & how well people have subscribed. Of course, the Interest given is good too. I am wondering when that cash you put in the Commercial Bank will have completed its two years & if it would be a better investment in the War Loan when the time is completed. Is it locked up indefinitely though in the War Loan? Because one might need ready cash later on & in it would be as well to have some in a place where it could be freed in a few months or so. If the War Loan can be drawn if necessary though it is certainly the best investment. But you know best my dear as you are on the spot. I think I must send another £100 over shortly from increased pay drawn here.  Being on Divisional Headquarters expenses are higher & so the extra 7/6 per day which I receive for the higher rank does not mean as much to as it would in an Ambulance where it costs much less to live. My defined pay must be accumulating too & I heard a rumour recently that we were to be allowed to put it into War Loans otherwise we get nothing from it at all I went over to see Jack a few days  ago as his unit has come down near to us again & he came over here one evening after dinner & we talked much & long. I have quite a comfy bivouac at present & we were able to talk for quite a long time comfortably & free from 
interruption. Major Murray Jones the ADVS here (Assis Director of Veterinary Services) came in for a few moments & I introduced him to Jack. Jack looks well & is certainty plumper than when he came across - he lives near the  biscuits at the Supply Section - & he seems less neurasthenic than he used to be. He is hoping for leave to Cairo shortly & he is certainly due for it after serving nearly 12 months over here. We are very quiet here now, as most of our work is in good running order & we have less to do.  Consequently we have more time to think & that always tend to make one f more fed up.  Most of our mosquito work is well in hand & I think should make a great difference to malaria, though it can't altogether prevent it as there are still swamps in the Turkish lines & we get mosquitos from them. We anticipate 
going back to the hills where Jack has just come from, for a spell in a few days as it is always so arranged that the troops get a chance of resting. We are not going out very much at present as the weather has warmed up a lot during the last few days & we prefer to stick to our tents.  I had the chance of a run to the Dead Sea however a few days ago in a car & had a very interesting trip. There is a collection of old buildings at this end of it which were used by the  Turks as grain stores where boats which bought grain from the Eastern  shores of the Dead Sea (the ancient Moab) discharged their cargoes & the wheat was taken to Jerusalem. We had a swim in the sea & a most remarkable experience it is, as no matter what one does, it is impossible to sink. When one is over his depth it is quite simple, one just stands up in the water without any effort & head & shoulders stick out of the top of it Lying on one's back & floating is also very simple indeed, but one must be careful not to get too much in the eyes as it stings like fun. We were able to wash off the water when we came out in some fresh & very glad to do it too as it tends to sting a good deal. So that is one more experience I have had this war which I had never previously anticipated. Finish now my dear with lots of love & hugs from Your loving son Wilf 