
Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 15 April 1917
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


15.4.1917 My dear mother,  Your welcome letter of 1.3.17 to hand this  mail likewise several papers which I have not yet  opened.  We are in the same spot as before but the Turks  are livening up a little now & we frequently hear some  vigorous "strafing" fortunately at some one else just  at present & their aeroplanes are paying much more  frequent visits & occasionally drop a bomb or two  but I think we suffer as much from the shell cases  from our own anti aircraft guns which of course  must fall & have an unpleasant habit of dropping  in our proximity - one of these just missed  a pet monkey we have here yesterday still  I have never heard of any one being hit with one  - chances are much against it. It is very  interesting to watch the puffs of smoke as  the shells explode near the plane & all the boys  cheer if the shot is a good one. Since I last  wrote we have done very little so that there is  not much to tell you. We had a visit one  day from Dawson who is now a Colonel in  another an Ambulance & a very funny chap & he livened things up. Then one afternoon Whitford (our new officer, in rank a Major) & I went for a ride over the hills & very enjoyeable it was. The part where we now are is terribly cut up from the traffic of so many horses men & no vegetation remains & the earth being of a chalky nature is finely powdered & very disagreeable  as it rises on the least provocation But when we got away from the camps on to the hills among the crops it was glorious, everything green & fresh. We chanced upon a Camel Corps in which was an officer named Creswell son of Admiral Creswell in Melbourne who had been to school with Whitford in Victoria. They were very glad to see each other as they had not met for years & Creswell who is a very good jolly fellow told us his experiences. He had first been to New Guinea soon after outbreak of war & then was a sort of aide-de-camp to the Governor, then he came back to Melbourne & enlisted as a private  & finally got a commission in the Camel Corps. He has been all over Egypt, down in the Sudan, on it’s western frontier & now here. Apart from this visit we have been doing the usual camp routine & having our daily dip meanwhiles. I am hoping to see our Jack some of these days, but he has not yet communicated with me from Moasca so don't know if he has arrived - he should be there now I think so I must stir him up with a letter. I seem to have received quite a number of letters all in a bunch lately from different people & have a job to write to them all. Weather is warming up considerably now as the summer advances & we can soon look forward to sweltering again I suppose but not as bad as before. I can’t find any more news this time my dear so will conclude with my very best of love to all with double share ^to mother from Your loving son, Wilf. 
