Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 28 November 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


28. 11. 1916 My dear mother, I am afraid, that it is more than a week since I last wrote you as we have changed our diggings since then & have consequently been upset in our arrangements. The powers that be evidently considered that we had had sufficient rest & sent us off again last Thursday morning. I cannot tell you the exact stages of the journey or the mileage we travelled but think I may safely say that we went over the same ground we formerly held & pushed on to where our front line now is. You remember that long expedition we made some two months ago when we had a brush with the Turks & they evacuated the place afterwards - well we are now camped there & so are considerably farther away from the dear old canal than we formerly were. We did the trip in easy stages, being four days on the trek & each night camped out under the stars & such stars they are in these tropical skies. The milky way which in Australia is comparatively faint here forms quite a definite broad white band across the sky & the other stars are very bright & this brightness is enhanced by the cloudless blue of the sky. The good old star of the East which guided the wise men of old rises night after night & often serves us as a beacon also. But to continue the trek, the days were beautifully fine & moderately cool, & the nights cold & the dew very heavy. Our sleeping valises were carried on the camels & they are certainly excellent on such trips, as when one is well burrowed into a valise with a mattress underneath him & the waterproof of the valise below that, then a couple of blankets above & the waterproof of the valise on top of that, one is as comfy as possible. There is a head protection also so that one is quite protected from the dew which is sufficiently heavy to wet through blankets. We brought good tucker along & managed to feed very well so that the trip was rather enjoyeable. Of course the travelling was slow as when troops travel together there are always frequent delays & that pace must be accommodated to the slowest unit. The scenery as you may imagine was not very impressive or varied as it was desert all the way, but toward the latter end it became more uneven & we got into those beastly sand dunes I have previously mentioned. We have managed to rig up some kind of shelter for ourselves in the shape of humpies made from waterproof sheets tied together & supported on bamboo poles & of course we have a few small tents for patients. There are no palm trees here worse luck & we rather miss them. I received a packet of Bulletins from Mab this morning very much delayed on the trip I think & before we left - I received some "Sydney Mails" from Em & a "Life" from you (not the first one is it my dear?) It is rather dull out here as you may imagine, just dumped down on the desert with very little to do but we manage to occupy our time in reading & paying little visits. I am looking forward to the billy which should be here soon & will be a boon just now. Did I tell to you that when in Cairo I drew all the back pay I had due to me as I have not spent all the 10/- per day I draw over here, because when we are in the desert it does not cost us very much to live & put it in the Anglo Egyptian bank in Cairo I could not get the cheque until I was just leaving & so was short of money at the end of my stay having only a small amount of ready cash when I had purchased clothes Etc. However it is in the bank now & amounts to about £70 & I think if possible I will send along a draft of £50 to you to put with the rest leaving £20 in Cairo as it is handy to have some there to be able to draw at a moments notice, as I have frequently been unable to get it from the pay office when I wanted it in Cairo. The trouble is I will not be in Cairo for some time in order to get the necessary form but will leave it there for the present. Poor old Roumania seems to be having a bad time at present, bother it all - I wish the jolly war would finish & let us get home. I had some letters from you before we left Romani - expect another mail soon - they always bring you very close to us, so close that I almost seem to be in Candelo with you again as I hope to be before - well I don't quite know but hope not very long. I hope your health is good my dear & you have enjoyed Em & Alice's visit Will write again shortly all being well Very best love to all with a good old hug for mother from Her loving son Wilf.