Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 21 May 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


21.5.1916  My dear mother,  I wrote my last letter to you only a fe  three or four days ago but last night we had a large  mail & I thought would write a few lines today to tell  you that I was so pleased to have two letters from you  one from Mab, one from Mrs Job, one from Cedric & one from  dear old Gordon Walker who is doing quite well in Tasmania.  I also received two Sydney Mails from Ern, a Life from you &  a copy of Land & Water & Bystander which I have sent from  Cairo each week. So I had quite a splendid mail.  What a lot of news you had to tell me in your letter of April 6th.  Harry with his car, Bloomfield's selling theirs, cousins in khaki & so on, your poor hand must have been very tired I'm sorry  to say that the recruiting sargeant who visited you confused  me with the other Captain Evans who was medical officer of  the 7th L.H. Regt & to whom my letters were sent at first.  He became sick on Anzac went to England & finally had a trip to Australia & was only 3 days there when he  was sent back to Egypt & is now in the 13th a Field  Ambulance near here. Strange to say Colonel Arnott  was in command of that regiment at the time so  he has had two Evans as medicos to his regiment.  You said W West ∧Chemist of Bega had fought at Tel-el-Kebir -  it is strange that only yesterday that some fellows I know who have just come from Tel-el-Kebir - for we have a big training camp there now - spoke  of visiting the trenches where the famous battle was fought.  & were describing to me the type of trench they used  then although they are very largely filled in with sand  now. I hope you received that shell safely as it  cost me a lot of trouble & I want you to keep it  for me. It fell in the vicinity of my dressing station  & I secured it & kept it for some time as I wanted  a good shell case, then at the evacuation we had  orders to take no curios but I put it in my pack  & left other items of clothing rather than it although  it made my pack much heavier. Sister Gibbins  who took it to Australia for me was a very kind  hearted little thing & was going home on transport  & wanted to know if I had anything to send, so  I thought it would be safest sent thus. You  will notice the shell cap which screws off, when  the shell explodes it flies off & all the contents  - large bullets of which I sent a sample fly out & spread out many yards. I think it is a  75 m.m. shell - the Turks had one of those  guns which played on Rhodadendron Ridge  & kept us always on the qui vive. I am  able to write today because it is cool & the  flies are not troublesome. When I last wrote it was sweltering & I had no energy for anything  but a couple of days ago a Northerly wind sprang  up & since then the change has been marvellous &  it resembles a rather warm spring day in Australia.  I'm a bit worried about your health as you say  you are thin - I sincerely hope with the winter you  will regain weight & that a timely holiday  will do all the needful for you. All the letters I  have from Australia about the fellows in my year who stayed behind speak of how well they are  all doing. It is rather annoying for those who have  gone to think of the others establishing themselves firmly in good practices & gaining good experience  while we are doing so little real medical work  but after all we have the satisfaction of knowing that  we have done the right thing, although Wesley & I  get very annoyed sometimes when we hear of some  fellows doing a big practice & many operations while  we ourselves become more out of practice each  month. However I suppose it will all  adjust itself in time. We have applied  for leave to go to Cairo together for three  days & hope it will be granted as the  change would be very welcome.  Cheer up my dear, & get yourself  in good nick for that trip to England with me later on.  Best of love  from  Your loving son,  Wilf.


There is another letter dated 17/5/16. Very little  news in it - Chief thing they had to  keep their thermometers in water which  was 106 - & they would burst at 110  he said same thing to Mrs Job before  I left Sydney - but left this out  did not like telling me the temperature Was 122 that day - poor fellows - God help them all - they are  enduring plenty on that desert.  Friday  So glad to get your note & learn that Linda is so much better &  all going on well at home. 
November 1916
