Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 29 March 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


A February edition of Life came to hand a few days ago - very welcome out here as reading matter is scarce.  9th L.H. Regt 29.3.1916.  My dear mother, I commence again a weekly letter in the hope that I may have some items to tell you but when I reflect find that there is absolutely nothing.  I am glad to say however that I have received a budget of letters from you, three in one mail, one more two or three days later & still another with one from Mab two days ago, so that I am making up arrears. I was glad to hear from your last letter that you were enjoying yourself with Mab but sorry indeed to think of you so soon parting. I wish you would take a trip to Sydney & see someone about your back & then why not have a run up to Newcastle & Lismore. Now that I am so far away (worse luck) you ought to take a trip around more frequently as the others cannot go home so often as I was able to do I was awfully grieved to hear of Mr Wilkinson's death, what an awful blow it must have been to poor Mabel Leplan. Please convey to her my deepest sympathies. We are going on here from day to day in the same way only it is getting hotter which we don't altogether appreciate. All ranks here are to be given 3 days leave to go to Cairo & I have applied for mine & hope they will grant it as it would be a nice though expensive change to run up there for a few days. Wesley & I met two or three days ago halfway between our respective camps & had a chat for a couple of hours in an old deserted hut after tying our horses up outside. There does not appear to be any likelihood of Mr Turk making any attempts to come in this direction & we appear to be destined to have a very quiet time. If at any time I should happen to move I will cable to you & let you know. Our new Colonel - Arnott has arrived today - I think I told you last week that he is one of the Sydney Arnotts. I am at my wits end to tell you news my dear but my letters are a reflection of the life I lead, if full of interest the letters are interesting, if not - well there is nothing to tell. Mab said in her letter you were looking well, though you said you had lost weight. Now my dear you must try & buck up & look well for me when I return home as I should not like to see you thin. I think if I'm not home by next winter but still in Egypt you will have to take a trip over here, it is a fine place in the winter though I can't recommend it in summer as a health resort. It isn't so far either & is full of Australian visitors in winter Goodbye my dear & goodluck Best of love to all with mother's usual share from Her loving son, Wilf.
