Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 10 August 1917
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


10.8.1917.  My dear mother, I think in my last note I gave you my address as D.A.D.M. S. Australian Mounted Division A.I.F. Egypt so I will not need to repeat it. I had another letter from Jack a few days ago & he seems fairly well settled in the Divisional train & I am very glad indeed as it is one of the best jobs going & he is generally well behind the firing line as their work is to bring along rations for the troops on big wagons  which do not go right up. I do hope that you haven't bothered about getting that armoured  shirt arrangement, it would be almost useless out here, my dear, & waste of money. You want to beware of people filching good cash from you by playing on your sant affections & sometimes your patriotism, though I don't mean by that to detract from the value of the many worthy patriotic funds. I am getting fairly well settled in my new job & now have my coat adorned with one of those gorget patches or staff tabs as we call them which are fixed on to the flap of the turned down collar of the tunic in front. We wear blue ones with a stripe of red in the middle of it, & not red ones as the General Staff do.
So I’m a regular peacock now with a  vengeance. I have been out very little since my arrival here, as sea bathing & reading have afforded me quite sufficient exercise  & recreation. My chief here the A.D.M.S, is  a very fine man - Colonel Dixon formerly in charge of the 1st Ambulance & a medical man from Brisbane, He is a real good sort in every way & capable to boot so I consider myself very lucky. We are having a very easy time at present as we have remained stationary on the beach, but I am taking advantage of it, to get a grip on the general work here & the way matters are carried out. I like the change here, as it is different work & I had felt for some few months past that I would be glad of some radical change as the work in the Ambulance was becoming a little monotonous. A lot of the officers here are Britishers & include one or two lords among them but in spite of that, they are on the whole decent sorts. No more news this time my dear, very best of love from Your loving son, Wilf.
