Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 7 November 1915
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Anzac Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:

9th Light Horse Regiment  Anzac,  November 7th 1915    My dear mother,  Another week has passed away quietly & here I am  sitting on a box outside my dug out in beautiful sunshine scribbling  this letter to you. It is a Sabbath afternoon & though there is again  no church service owing to the illness of the chaplain something  of the peace & restfulness of Sunday has come over me as I have  lolled about in the sun although the duties of the day are exactly  similar to those of other days  A mail came here this week  but of course contained nothing for me though I expect to  that by the time the next mail arrives my letters will have been   re - addressed from Egypt & I will receive some. Yesterday I  sent off a week end cablegram  to you as I thought it  might relieve your mind a little, although it will be two or  three weeks old when you receive it as it takes fully two weeks  for it to go to Alexandria by letter post from where it is   sent by cable. I have also discovered that the best day  to post letters here is Saturday so in future I will write  on Friday commencing this week. Today we had a gift of  tobacco & cigarettes sent from Australia, one plug of tobacco  & three packets of cigarettes for each man - I have quite a number of cigarettes  now with those issued, more than I can smoke, so will pass  some on to heavier smokers.  It was very interesting yesterday  to watch one of our aeroplanes above us here which was going along merrily when suddenly I heard her  engines stop & thought something must be wrong  & she commenced to descend gradually & very  skilfully by voltoplaning, are sloping down slowly  in one direction, then turning & descending in another  until she finally landed in the water from where she  was towed to the land. It is difficult to know  quite how much I am allowed to tell you of  military operations but I think small events of  that kind are allowable. Yesterday afternoon  also there was a very interesting bombardment of  a place called Sniper's Nest, by some of our  howitzars on the plain near here. The Snipers who  had some weeks ago been kept down fairly well by  our men by counter sniping & machine guns in  this position, had dug themselves in & built overhead  cover for themselves so that they became fairly safe &  then grew troublesome as there are certain points  which are visible to them at fairly short range & they are  constantly firing at these spots. Our guns therefore  determined to destroy their cover & did some excellent  shooting sending about 20 high explosive shells into  the spot & all except two or three shots were direct  hits & I believe they knocked almost demolished   the place. It's a very strange thing that a large  proportion of our men here have never seen a  Turk & I suppose most of the Turks have never seen an Australian or a Briton, for both sides are  so well entrenched that they are invisible to each    other. I saw my first two Turks today through a   telescope a long distance away, otherwise they would  have been undercover, & we could see one of their dressing  stations in the open, as neither side intentionally shells  the others medical staff or sick & wounded. I also walked  along the trenches beyond our own immediate locality to  a spot called the Apex, then trenches there being  merely a continuation of our own but very much closer  to the Turks at one point only about 30 yards away &  I had a peep through a periscope at them with  their wire entanglements in front & then as we passed  back to our own line had more peeps through periscopes  & watched the distance between the two lines of trenches  gradually widening until it became about 600 yards  in our own with a deep gully intervening between the two.  At the apex itself there is just a narrow ledge connecting  this Rhododendron Ridge with the main Tunic Bahr range  without the intervening gully but of course Mr Turk has  that particular part commanded by innumerable  machine guns and guarded with wire entanglements.  We have had a continuation of the glorious weather  I spoke of last week, thus further verifying that  excellent forecast which was given of us & clipped  from the Westminster Gazette. We are to have a cold snap 
in the middle of November & then it is to become mild  at the end. Southerly gales early in December followed by  a calm period fairly mild till Xmas. Then northerly   winds & rain.  Blizzards in January the snow  sometimes lies for 6 weeks, so I expect it will be  fairly cold then. Never mind we are well covered in  & have plenty of warm clothes. I ran down (metaphorically  speaking) to see Wesley this week & he came up & had  some afternoon tea with me, otherwise I have  not been about very much. I have been reading a  good deal, finished Thackeray's Pendennis which I  think you would enjoy - in some respects it reminds  me of our own case but hope I'm not so bad as  the hero is pictured, am at present reading Carlyle's  Heroes & Hero worship which I borrowed - had partially  read it before I left Australia, & am also reading  Dickens Tale of Two Cities.  I will write to Egypt again  I think for some more of Dickens & Victor Hugos Les Miserables  as I can get them over in about a month. My last order  of some books chocolate etc from Egypt has not yet arrived  but I expect it shortly. I would like to believe that you  are well & contented & not distressed about me, all will  be well I feel sure with God's help. Xmas greetings to   everyone, I am awfully sorry that I can send  nothing more than greetings. Best of love to all  & a double share to mother from  Her loving son,  Wilf. 