Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 6 September 1915
Location: Heliopolis Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


1st Aust. Gen. Hospital  Heliopolis  September 6th, 1915,     My dear mother,  Another mail has arrived since  I last wrote you bringing a letter from you  Mab & Alice & a Sydney Mail from  the latter which was much appreciated. It  is glorious when a mail arrives to get news  from home & it's branches & seems to bring  Australia very near. Everyone speaks of the great  success of Australia day & how nobly Australians  have responded. I am now established here in the  Hospital again in a medical ward of 71 beds  - I think it is the largest here & I was very  fortunate to get it. Dr. Rennie's letter which  I showed to Colonel Maundsley undoubtedly  had a great deal to do with it. In the main  building where I am we take all the sickest  cases while the less serious ones are sent to our  auxiliary hospitals near by & as soon as our  own patients become convalescent we send them  off to the Auxiliary Hospitals so that we keep  only sick cases. Three trains of wounded came here yesterday the first had over 200 cases  the second about 200 & the third a less number.  It is a pitiful sight to see the poor chaps come  in, some are "walking cases" who are able to  come in without aid, others are "cot cases" & have  to be carried. One sees a long stream of poor  tired looking men, almost all thin & haggard,  some with hardly strength to drag one leg  after another, slowly & painfully making their way  to the tables where they are distributed by the  medical men to the various wards & auxiliary  hospitals & when they get to bed they are just  as pleased as can be. I don't think I have ever  seen before such an utter air of utter weariness  & mute dumb suffering as many of the poor  fellows have. We had a very interesting trip a  few days ago with another medic named Kay  who has been here for some time & knows the place  well. We went to view the old city wall which was  built hundreds of years ago in the days of the  Crusaders & originally surrounded the city. It is  of enormous thickness & strength, a carriage &  pair could almost drive on the top & it has  numerous loopholes to fire through, many   weird ung  underground passages &  above grids overhanging through which 
boiling water & other dainties could be poured on the  heads of anyone closely approaching the wall.  We saw two of the gates which can be closed by  huge iron doors & on each side of them the  wall projects for many feet so that anyone  approaching could be attacked from the  sides front & above. Here also was a  delightful grid just above the gate & one  could pour anything down it with great  ease. There were also large holes through  which huge stones could be rolled out &  drop on the heads of the enemy, who would  evidently have a warm reception. After having  a good look round we went along to the  Mooski i.e Bazaar of which I told you  & I bought a very nice copper tray beautifully  carved for Pappita Job's wedding gift  I have been a little worried that I have not  yet sent anything yet & this just fitted in  beautifully. It is all hand-worked in fact  Kay who was with it has watched it being  made during his visits recently. It only cost  £2.0.0. & appeared well worth it. My trouble  now is to pack & send it along. I want to  get things here & send them home & to the various  members of the family when I can save some 
cash as I know Egyptian things are appreciated.  A couple of fellows who were in our year,  Murphy & Kirkwood, to two very nice fellows  went over to Gallipoli today & we gave them  a send off last night in town by having  dinner at one of the restaurants there & we  had a very good time indeed. Six men who  had been in our year going through were here  & we had a kind of reunion which was  very pleasant & then we trotted round &  looked at an entertainment or two sw &  had quite the most enjoyable evening I have had  for a long time - there were present Graham,  Wesley, Parry, Murphy, Kirkwood & myself,  just a nice little party. I am having quite  a good time in my ward have some very  interesting cases, discovered one chap with  malaria today by examining his blood who  must have caught it somewhere about Egypt  as he had never been elsewhere in the tropics. It is  splendid being able to follow up one's cases in the  Pathological department as one can do the whole thing  properly in that way. I had a run over to the camp  one afternoon this week to look up the fellows  over there as they were quite a nice lot & I  promised to go over to dinner some night. 
We have just had just had another lot of medical men arrived from Australia some of whom I know, but they did not have very much news to tell us, matters appeared to be going along much as usual over there. I don't think that I told you that dear old Colonel Newmarch whose name I am sure you will remember as one of my teachers at Sydney Hospital where we called him “Berny Newmarch” has been appointed as commanding officer of this hospital - I am so pleased because it is grand to have someone who knows you in authority here & he is such a kind-hearted old chap, we all loved him at Sydney Hospital. I fear th me that my news is exhausted, mother & all the bairns, so will conclude with the best of love to all the family & a double share for mother from Her loving son,  Wilf. Many thanks Alice old chook for the Sydney Mail - it has been very welcome.