Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 26 January 1917
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


26.1.1917
My dear mother, Once again in the desert and after all there are compensations as at present the weather is perfect & the open desert  & sea are very different from the stuffiness of Cairo. I believe an Australian mail is expected here today but probably I think I will write this letter now & reply later to yours when they come. Horrid rumors are prevalent that the P&O are only going to run a monthly service to Australia instead of fortnightly - wouldn't it be abominable? Everything is very quiet here now, & may be so for sometime for all we know, but of course we don't know very much. I enjoyed my run to Cairo very much, though it was a very hurried one. As soon as we settled down here after the last fighting I proposed to the colonel that we should take advantage of the time to go on leave & he intended going first but changed his mind at the last moment & I went. We have now on the railway this side of the canal a splendid hospital train which is a great contrast in comfort to the ordinary ration trains which have no springs underneath or between carriages trucks & are the most abominably uncomfortable things to ride in that you could imagine so I made up my mind to travel by the hospital train, which is beautifully equipped if possible. Being a medical officer I succeeded in getting aboard & it so happened that our old brigadier general who has been suffering from malaria was going down by it & wished to take his aide de camp with him but as the latter was not ill or a medico he was not allowed to go aboard & I offered my services to the old boy. We had a very comfortable trip, as there were very few patients in the officer's car & we had quite a multitude of bunks to be on if we chose. They brought us a splendid breakfast of eggs & bacon & biscuits bread butter & jam which we greatly appreciated, as eggs or butter we had not tasted since being in Cairo last We were also given lunch so were quite luxurious - so different from the other beastly old train on which one would have to take some tinned stuff & drink out of a waterbottle. On reaching the canal there was a car to meet the general & we trotted round the place for a while  & I took him off to a stationary hospital to rest as he wasn't fit to run about too much.
There he met a colonel who had been through the same battles in the S. African war & they had a very enjoyable chat & the old Colonel produced his very best port. I also found a friend - McDonald who was in my year at Sydney & enlisted in the R.A. M.C. We were given a splendid tea - fresh fish, bacon & eggs Etc & caught our train on the other side of the canal at 7p.m. arriving in Cairo at about midnight. We went to Shepheard's Hotel & dossed there for the night & would you believe it I experienced great difficulty in sleeping in a soft bed with sheets. Shepheard's is a far famed hotel absolutely the swankiest in Cairo but I personally prefer the Continental. Next morning I went off to the kit stores to get some things from my bag & this took all the morning as I didn't rise for breakfast till 10 am. In the afternoon the general was going out to the hospital & so was I, & he gave me a left in the car he had at his disposal Quite a number of our wounded from the last fights were in this hospital & it was quite pleasant to trot round the place & see them all again, most of them doing very well & enjoying the comfort & attention they were receiving. Incidentally I saw quite a number of nurses I knew who had arrived from Australia only ten days previously & came mostly from Sydney Hospital. They were really quite a good looking lot too, very pleasant to see after the desert. The Matron (Miss Creel) was formerly matron of The Sydney Hospital & I had a chat with her later in the evening. Some of the medicos I knew also & I stayed to dinner with them & afterwards went down to a concert which was being given for the patients & after that we went over & had quite a long that with the Matron about old acquaintances. Next day I went out to the zoo for morning tea,  ?? I think I have previously described to you what a pretty place it is & what a magnificent variety of animals there are. Of course I didn't go alone, but pray don't be alarmed my dear it was quite a different girl to the last visit. (The only one I knew last trip has been married since!) I went to tea at Davies Bryans that night a bonser tea too, as there were two fine chickens cabbage potato, pudding & fruit - all very nice. They were very anxious to hear all about the fighting of course. Next day I trotted about nearly all the time shopping as there was quite a lot to be done but I finished in the afternoon & went off to the hospital 
again & one of the medicos there & myself took a couple of the girls to dinner – just as we were leaving we met the old matron & she wanted to know what she had done that she wasn't going! Next morning away back to the desert, left Cairo at 11 am. came again by the hospital train on this side of the canal, but first of all had a very good dinner with McDonald again & then went properly to bed in the train & woke up next day in El Arish & here we are again. These little trips are a very pleasant break in our lives though a little expensive,  but still they help to make life more endurable so they are well worth it. Well, well, my dear, no more this time, hope you on well & cheerful please thank father very much for the tin of sweets which were very acceptable. Best of love to all & a double share for mother from Her loving son Wilf.