Author: Wilfred Evans
Location: S S Karoola at Sea
Nationality: Australian

Text:


McILWRAITH, McEACHARN LINE. "T.S.S KAROOLA," At Sea
 My dear mother, I am commencing this a few days before we expect to arrive at our next port so that I shall have less to do then We had a splendid time at Perth & I really should have written you a letter from there but our time was short & we were rushing about a lot. We arrived at Freemantle late one evening & went ashore to have a look round there. Freemantle appears to be merely a port & I was not particularly impressed with it & as you have been there I shall not attempt to describe it. However they have decent electric trams which cost 3d a ride no matter how far you go, but the streets are very
narrow & footpaths often hold only 3 persons. We went to a picture show for a while but soon tired of that & went for a walk round the town & popped into the school of arts where we read up the previous weeks news. Graham & Wesley accompanied me & we had supper & returned to the ship. Next morning all the medical officers were allowed ashore & a few of the combatant officers though most of them had to remain with their troops who were not given leave but were taken ashore in boats to have a rest ashore & a march. We were moored in the stream to prevent desertions. Despite the fact tho Graham Wesley & I went ashore then early in the morning. by a motor launch & took the first train to Perth & reached there in about 35 minutes. The narrow railway gauge seemed so strange after our own. There were several good suburbs between Freemantle & Perth with some very fine houses,
for the most part built of brick - such a contrast to Brisbane you will remember. We encountered a talkative old lady in the train who told us various details of the place & where we should go. After arriving at Perth we went to have a look over Boan's store which is just opposite the railway station & is a very fine building & has a very good stock. On the top there is a flat roof from which a good view of Perth can be obtained. We bought some  books there & continued on our way. We had a little shopping to do & then went about on an exploring expedition. My impressions of Perth were very favorable. It has good electric trams & some very fine buildings. The streets are not very
 wide but are at right angles to each other & are generally straight. As usual the Roman Catholic church occupies the commanding position in the town. The business portion of the town is congregated for the most part in four streets Hay St. William St. Barrack St & St Georges Terrace. The latter is a particularly fine street contains only banks, insurance agencies, shipping offices & places of that kind & a fine Congregational church. The buildings are very good indeed one would hardly find as good a collection in Sydney all in one group. Below this the ground slopes down to the Swan River about ¼ mile away & it is a very fine stretch of water  about 3/4 of a mile across.  There is a nice little park near  this and we discovered the  newly established University  not far away & Government  House which is a beautiful  building in fine grounds sloping  down to the Swan River. We had  lunch at the Savoy Hotel & Graham  & Wesley had to go back to Freemantle  to attend the troops during the afternoon  in case any accidents should happen  but my leggings were by this time  hurting my feet so I stayed  behind & had them fixed up   by a bootmaker. I then had a   trot round & met Kirkwood  by chance & went along with him to do some business at the   barracks. He then told me that  he had had a wire from home  saying that his brother who had  enlisted in the ranks had been  killed at the Dardanelles. He  is one of seven boys, three of  whom are married & the other  four have all enlisted, he alone   being in the medical service  so one can appreciate what  his mother's feelings must be.  We went for a trip over the Swan  River to South Perth where the  zoo is, in a steam launch  holding about 40 passengers &  after looking around for a while  came back & had afternoon  tea at the Esplanade Hotel,  a very nicely appointed place  in a quiet street not far from  the River.  After this we walked  round again for a while &   I sent away some post  cards.  We had dinner at the Savoy Hotel, the  chief place in the middle of  the town & most of the people   went to the theatre afterwards  About 30 nurses stayed there  also. Kirkwood however  did not feel inclined to go  anywhere so I stayed with  him during the evening  & we had a quiet rest &  then a walk & supper.  Next morning we went for  a taxi ride round King's  Park which is situated  on a hill overlooking the   Swan River & the whole  of Perth - a beautiful  situation.  The roads are like   marbles the ride was delightful.  Then we took the train back  to Freemantle & came on board  The boat left at about five oclock that day. We had  rough weather for a day after  leaving Freemantle but  since then the sea has been  like a mill pond & has  so far not been very hot  not as hot as one would  expect.  Preparations are now  being made for crossing the line  as we are going to have some  sport on that day.  A boxing  competition has been started  among the men & seats are arranged  around the ring which is over  the aft hatch & it has afforded  us good amusement on a couple  of nights for some of the bouts   are very funny & most of them  willing.  We had a dance two  or three evening ago & it was  very laughable to see the  couples go rolling over into  the scuppers when the ship  heeled over a little during the swell. 
You could send the other out  keep this  The following is a list of the photos  I would like you to send for  me -   Jobs 2.  Miss Sheridan Record Room R.P.A Hospital  (I promised the girls there one as they  had some of the other's photos on the  wall who had gone away to the war)  Sister Steel  Nurse Hewlett   R.P.H.A.  Nurse Wildash     . . . . .  Nurse Keys            . . . . .   Please don't look too shocked my   dear.  Then.  Will Stewart Crown Sollicitors Office  Macquarie St.  Andersons. 
Dr. Willis   R.P.A.H  Dr. J Stewart  R.P.H.A.  I think I promised more but  cannot remember at present.  I must now wind up my dear,  hoping that you this will find  you in the best of health &   spirits & not worrying too  much about your wandering son.  I think you had better address letters  straight to Egypt, to the address I gave  you & if you commence now I will in   all probability receive them regularly.  My dear no matter how many miles of  ocean divide us I will still be thinking  of you & yearning to steal away to comfort  you sometimes when you are lonely & aif  I cannot do actually in body I will do so in   spirit so we can have a kind of wireless  telepathy.  Very best love totall  from your loving son  Wilf.