Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 10 September 1918
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Port Said
Nationality: Australian

Text:


[*Please post to Mabel at once - Mabel post to Harry - "Livesey"*] 7 Canberra Grove Malvern Melbourne. Victoria
10.9.1918. My dear mother, I am commencing to write to you after lunch on my birthday, which I had quite forgotten until a parcel from you containing a cake appeared in my bivouac just before lunch. It was rather remarkable that it should arrive on the exact day, it only did so by being delayed a few days, as it was sent to the place at Jerusalem where I had stayed for a short time & was then sent on. I received no less than four letters from you by this last mail, some old & some new & only hope that you are not overdoing things in that nice home of yours. We have learnt more than ever over here not to worry too much about exteriors & as long as one is comfortable what does appearance count? I shall be quite capable of living in a small tent when I go back & could be quite happy & comfy in it too. No expensive furniture required -merely a bed & a comfy chair & a table. We have not done very much here lately, life is much easier when we are resting as we are at present & there are practically no mosquito breeding areas to worry about. Col Fowler is away at present - he has his wife at Cairo & has gone to see her. Quite a number of officers have their wives over here now & there is quite a large Australian colony at Port Said - fifteen or twenty women at least & they have almost taken possession of the hotels there. Two or three babies have appeared lately too I hear & more expected. One rather funny incident occurred when a child was born to one officer's wife & a friend wished to inform the husband who was in the field of the occurrence that he was the father of a daughter & not a boy. He had necessarily to put red the message into military form so that it might be considered official & so be sent to the officer at his unit. So he composed it thus - "Indent for drawers, leggings & spurs no longer required". The country round here is very pretty indeed & there are some beautiful rides in the vicinity, so we take advantage of these whenever possible. Towards evening it becomes quite cool & delightful & we thoroughly enjoy a canter over the country to one or other of the pretty villages. We are all overjoyed with the good news from France & we have a splendid map of the battlefield here at headquarters & I visit the office where is kept each day & follow the progress we make on it, as we receive the news each day by wire. Talking of business - I now have over £100 over here now partly in my paybook undrawn & partly in the Anglo Egyptian Bank & I think the best thing for me to do is put £100 into War Bonds here & send the receipt on to you. Arrangements have been made for us to do that through our pay people here & it will save lots of bother in sending it home. I always keep a certain amount of money in hand for emergencies (going home! or on holidays) but & was waiting until I had accumulated £100 over & above this to put it into Bonds. I must see the pay sergeant about it today. I have not heard very much more about my trip yet - Col Storey went on the last boat - you may read of his arrival. I don't think I will be quite the next but I'm not far down the list - among the first two or three at any rate & it just depends on the number of boats going home with sick & wounded. I would be quite pleased to get home about Christmas time. The only trouble is of course coming back as I'm sure  I wont feel anxious to do so when I go home, although Id I would hate to give it up in a way before it's finished. Still there are certainly lots of people who have never come away who ought to relieve us now. On the other hand experienced men are required here & there are not too many about. From a personal standpoint I would like to tho go into civilian life tomorrow as I'm practically ruining my career in the military & will have to commence all over again when I once give it up. However before I leave I will ask Col Downes what he thinks about it & if he asks for a promise to met come back I can hardly refuse. However my dear the war isn't going to last long & I may yet be able to stay when I do come. No more this time, lots of love & hugs I many thanks for the cake which is equal to your very best & that's saying a lot Your loving son Wilf.
Melbourne Monday. My dear Mother, Just a line advising safe return but very tired - warm crowded train and I didn't take a sleeper. All well. Sold 3000 maps in Sydney - a bit disappointing but not too bad. Hope you are both well. Love Harry. Many thanks for great kindnesses.