Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 9 December 1917
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


9.12.1917  My dear mother, I rather forget what day it was when I last wrote to you, but I have seen one or two fresh places since, so will be able to tell you a few more things. I don't think I told you of the church at Ramleh - the old Aruth  Arimythea. It was built some years ago by the King of Spain on the site of an old church built by Richard Coeur de Lion. It is incorporated in a large building which was found recently used as Turkish Headquarters & Flying Corps Headquarters. The church in deference to the Spainards has been left practically intact & is a really beautiful place. There are several beautiful statues, & ornamental flowers some of the best I have ever seen, several fine stained glass windows - a personal gift from the Spanish King I believe a fine altar & sanctuary with crucifixes & all complete. I took a photo inside & hope it will develop well. Then also in Ramlah there is the an old Norman tower & adjacent to it a very large ruined church & graveyard which I believe date back to the Crusades also. From the top of the convent now used as a hospital is one of the ^most magnificent views I have ever seen. The roof is flat & there is a balustrade round it like the Hotel Metropole & from here can be seen the beautiful "Vale of Sharon" which in spring time must certainly "blossom like the rose". Pretty villages can be seen dotted here & there dark clumps of olive trees surrounding the old ruins & modern dwellings intermingled with the lighter fresher green of the young orange trees. The Jaffa road can be seen winding away Northwards & the railway which formerly connected Jerusalem with Damascus more to the East. The dark rugged hills of Judaea, among which David roamed form a sombre forbidding ay  background on the Northern side & among them the white puffs of shrapnel indicate that fighting is still going on between the modern Crusaders & their ancient foes. Away to the south stretches the fertile plain with it's vineyards & olive groves & villages in apparently endless succession. The spires of Ludd which is near Ramleh form a prominent feature of the landscape & the most prominent of these belongs to the old church of St George of Merrie England. From the outside - the only portion I have seen, it is an uninviting mass of grey stone, surrounded by a squalid village with cobbled streets on which my horse showed imminent signs of falling with a crash so I beat a hurried retreat without further investigation. Jaffa is a much larger place than either of these but, unfortunately my stay there was a very short one & I was unable to see very much of it. The country around it is exceptionally pretty though & as one approaches from the east, there is a fine orphanage 
built by one of the powers for some charitable object or other. One enters the town & without warning there opens the central - market square in which is a large clock tower built of stone with a four faced clock on it. Even now it is quite a busy place this market square & vendors of fruit & vegetables, meat & fish, are driving a busy trade & drawing so much cash from the unwary soldier in exchange for as little as they possibly can, in spite of the lists of fixed prices which are seen everywhere, setup by our own people. There are turbaned fellows who might be Turks or Arabs & greasy Greeks, mixed with slim big nosed Jews in their European costume & wearing almost always flat caps on their heads. There is a fine civilian hospital in Jaffa, at present being reorganised by our people. We were very interested to see real hotels & restaurants again, some of which already show such signs as "British & Australian Restaurant". There is a big iron foundry also, a very useful thing for us indeed. There are photographers studios, post card shops & all the other small appendages of civilization which seemed strange to us after having fought for so long in the desert. Some of the residential places seemed very good & there is a European & native quarter. The Turks or Germans had made some very good metalled roads between the main towns here & they are proving very useful to us. Since I last wrote you it has been raining & we have had rather a wretched time. I have been fortunate in having a good field bivouac but some of the poor beggars have had rather a rough time, as not only has it been wet for 3 or 4 days but bitterly cold & when a fellow has insufficient shelter & his blankets & clothes get wet his lot his not enviable. However everything possible is being done to make them as comfortable as I can be under the conditions, but at such times I always feel what a wretched thing war is to compel men to live under the conditions they do & the men who commence it should pay a very heavy penalty. I am very well & salutations my dear, & hope you are the same very best of love to all & a hug for mother from Her loving son Wilf