Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 25 January 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


9th L.H. Regt. Heliopolis 25.1.1916.
 My dear mother, It is only a few days since I wrote my last letter to you but I must try & keep up the sequence.  No more mail has arrived since then, except local letters but we are getting mails beautifully here, as we now avoid Lemnos & the Anzac beach which I think must have accounted for many letters & parcels. I think I had been to dinner with Gwen Evans when I wrote you last, & went to see her off the next night, & forget if I told you that I met there a man named Dr Jones who went to school with the Hughes boys & was in the same tennis club as Stanley Ernest & Eileen Hughes. He also knew the place where father grandfather lived & was quite interesting to talk to. He has recently obtained a commission in an English regiment, has been out here for over twelve months but only obtained his commission a month ago.  Since then I have led a very quiet life for the very obvious reason that until the next pay day which is today, money was rather scarce (in the native language (mafish feluci) I have lived for the whole  week on about 5/- or less which is a ‘meritorious performance in Egypt where a step outside the door means money. So that I have little news to tell you this time, have paid several visits to hospital where several fellows I know are ill. Dr Stephen is in bed, first had a bad cold, then it settled in one eye which has been very bad indeed, poor old chap, but he is on the mend now. We had a very nice ride some days ago through Matorrhea where the well is where Mary is reputed to have rested with Joseph on her way to Egypt.   I think I described it to you once before. We rode through the village on the main road & then turned off through the irrigated fields.  These are still very beautiful, & now have young crops of wheat & barley growing, with patches of broad beans, & whole fields of bersene which is Egyptian clover &  resembles lucerne, & forms
excellent horse fodder being used very largely for our horses.  One fact which seemed to me remarkable as we rode on this time was the entire absence of fences, we rode for miles through the fields & villages by small tracks without once seeing a fence.   How the donkeys & other animals are kept away is a mystery to me.  The villages of course have mud walls & probably the animals are penned in there, for as we passed through we could see in some places
 animals occupying small mud huts in the villages apparently in conjunction with the human inhabitants We have had no word yet of moving on, some rumors say that we will go to the Suez canal & help to garrison it but no one knows yet & for the present we are staying here.  If we do leave I will send you a cable.  Weighed again recently & am now 12 st 7lbs - disgusting isn’t it, my dear, I really must stop eating.  Much love to all the family & a double share for mother from Her loving son, Wilf.