Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 21 July 1918
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Hebron
Nationality: Australian

Text:


21.7.1918.
My dear mother, Down in the valley once more for a few weeks among the dust & heat, but the season is advancing & will be changing for the better soon. We fortunately missed one heat wave when the temperature was over 105 ° for the whole week. Since our arrival it has been comparatively decent & we haven't felt it at all. We are comfortably situated as we have an E. P. tent (quite a large square tent) for a mess & have decent bivouacs.  I think when I last wrote you I was at Bethlehem Port Said. I returned to Bethlehem only a few days before we moved but was fortunate in having a trip to Bethehem Hebron in the meantime. Hebron was the spot where David lived before he became king & Abraham, Sarah & Isaac were all buried there & over their graves is erected a large Mohommedan mosque with pillars or minarets in honour of each of these, as the Old Testament characters are heroes to Mohommedans as well as Christians. The town is a pretty old place surrounded by a fertile tract of country covered with grape vines, fruit trees & crops of all kinds. The main road from Jerusalem to Beersheba runs through it & I understand it was the centre of the Turkish vilayet before we took the country. The hills around are rocky & steep & it was among them that David took refuge - the tomb cave of Abraham being I understand between Bethlehem & Hebron. We had a most pleasant afternoon, on our way down had a look at a new water supply which has been constructed for Jerusalem. Jerusalem has always been short of water as it has only the Pool of Siloam & one small spring as a natural water supply, relying, otherwise on catchment in the rainy season which is stored by the inhabitants in cisterns in their homes & the supply thus kept generally tides them over the dry season which lasts all summer. In addition the old aqueduct from Solomon's pools still runs but is not a great supply. Early in this summer the presence of so many troops encroached considerably on the water supply of the inhabitants & to replace it our engineers have been engaged in repairing a large reservoir built by Pontius Pilate many years ago some 15 miles from Jerusalem on the Hebron road but instead of using the old aqueduct by a s which ran by a sinuous course through the valleys to the lower part of Jerusalem - it's source was only as high as the lower part of Jerusalem - they now pump it up to the top of a big hill & then by means of pipes run it by gravity from there to Jerusalem. Certainly the British people treat the inhabitants of captured countries very well. I am now busily engaged warring against mosquitos. Col Dixon suddenly obtained leave to Australia & leaves tomorrow. I have given him your address & asked him to call on you if he is in Sydney. He is a fine chap & I'm sure you would like him. No more news this time mother mine, hope you are very well & in good spirits as I am with lots of love from Your loving son, Wilf. Some of these days I'm going to have a shot for some leave home to Australia if I can raise some decent reasons.  Can you think of any?