Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 25 December 1915
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: At Sea
Nationality: Australian

Text:


At Sea  December 25th, 1915  My dear mother,  This is indeed a   strange Christmas Day, the first I  have ever passed away from home  & it has been unaccompanied  by any of those glad & peaceful  sensations which we are wont  to associate with the festive season.  I have been unable to write to you  for the last two or three weeks  as no mail left Anzac for some  ten days or a fortnight prior  to the evacuation of which you  have doubtless been already  acquainted & no opportunity for  sending letters presented itself  during our short stay at Lemnos.  You will doubtless be interested  to hear something of the events 
which preceded accompanied  & followed the evacuation & I  shall endeavour to tell you  what I personally observed during  that interesting time. * We had  just settled down comfortably  in our new quarters & made  everything snug for the winter  after the first cold snap, when  I noticed that our reserve store or  "dump" of provisions (bully beef & biscuits)  which had for some time spent some time previously  been deposited on the top of  Rhododendion Ridge near our  camp was gradually being  eaten into, although the weather  was fine & there was no difficulty  in bringing up stores.  Well,  the primary object of this dump  was to have a reserve on the  ridge, which could be issued if  the weather should have rendered 
the roads too slippery to convey  stores up the hill.   During the  rain & snow we had found it almost  impossible to bring up provisions  as the roads became very slippery  & the hills are very steep.  Then came  an order that no fresh meat or bread  would be issued, consequently  we were provisioned entirely  from our dump which daily grew  smaller, this during beautifully  calm weather which had always  previously meant that fresh meat  & bread could be landed.  So I began to smell a rat. Then  the xx British Division was  taken away from Suvla Bay  - it was said to go to Salonica  (I anticipated the censor & erased the number of the division).  Then followed some days  during which nothing very 
eventful followed occurred.  Various rumors of evacuation  were however current.  Then  suddenly, a bombshell burst  in our midst, several regiments  & battalions received sudden  orders to embark presumably  for Lemnos & among them  the 10th Light Horse from our  Brigade to which you  will remember Charles Wesley  was attached. He had been  round to see me early in the  evening & rushed round about  ten o'clock & woke me up in  a great state of excitement  to let me know the news.  We were ordered to leave  our bivouacs & take over those  10th occupied by the 10th L.H Regt  & had to hold the line of trench which had previously been occupied by them in addition to our own. They embarked at night of course as the movement would otherwise have been visible to the Turks. The nights however were moonlit & from our position, we could plainly distinguish the outline of several large transports lying offshore to take them aboard. These would also be visible to the Turks as some of their trenches were a great deal closer to the water than our own at Rhododendron. To our troubled minds this meant of course that he would divine the move & attack us in  our weakened condition. We forgot however that we knew all about it & he didn't & he evidently thought that troops were being landed for to our scouts reported that he was improving his trenches & wire entanglements as fast as possible. However we were in a state of considerable nervous tension which increased as each day passed & our troops were depleted. More men were taken off on the following night & a good deal of baggage & goods on the next two nights & some more men. The  ordinance store was thrown open to the troops to take what they wished 
as it was impossible to remove the stuff for the lives of the men were imperilled by too long delaying to remove  goods. So the men got   all sorts & conditions of   stuff from Jack boots to   warm vests. All liquors  were destroyed. Then three  nights before the final  evacuation the remains   of the ordinance caught  fire, whether by intention or not I don't know - strict orders had been given to kindle no extra fires. It started about twelve o'clock one night & made a tremendous blaze & we all thought that Mr. Turk would surely guess what was going on, - we did not feel too happy 
as we had a little more than a single line of defence & that was so thinly held I began to picture Constantinople for Xmas. A Turkish  plane aeroplane came over  one day & we all wondered  if he would notice the  sparcity of men. Then about  6.30 p.m. on the night  following the fire a wicked  looking enemy plane appeared  again in the moonlight  or we thought it was an   enemy & it flew very  low which looked very   suspicious. Our men  kept all the usual fires 
going in our vacated   bivouacs & no roofing  material was removed  & men were ordered to   move about a lot in order  to make things appear as  usual. Then at last orders  came for our regiment to  move out on the second last  night leaving two four  officers & 28 men to man  the trenches previously   occupied by our own  regiment & the 10th together  with the machine guns  which were all left till  the last night as they are  so effective in stopping an  attack. The troops leaving  were divided into three  parties A B & C, we 
formed part of C party  which were the last to  leave on that night. We  assembled as quietly as  possible no smoking or   talking at eleven o'clock  at night marched quietly   down to the main sap which  we were to reach at 11.30 pm  where we were met by a  guide & were taken by him  to the place of embarkation  & without the slightest delay  marched straight aboard  our appointed barge. These  barges accommodate 400  men each & are of shallow  draught for the water at  the pier is not deep &  are splendidly constructed 
for quickly embarking men.  They are entirely made of  iron & are flat on top where   there is accommodation for a  large number of men & have  stairs leading down from their  centre to an inner part which  is entirely covered in & so  shrapnel proof. They have quite   a decent speed & are easily  handled. While we were  walking along the main sap  to the beach we saw a couple  of shells burst near the pier  as the Turks had an unfortunate  habit of shelling the pier  at night when for there was   a lot of traffic at that  time, & we wondered if they  would treat us to any  of the commonly called "iron rations" 
a term used by the men to  indicate shells or bullets  though its correct meaning is  quite different being used by  the authorities for emergency  rations which are given to  troops on the move. Well we  were comfortably seated on the  boat when whish! bang! as  shell burst near by &  the pellets churned up the  water near us & one small  portion just grazed ^the nose of one of  the Colonels but no one was  injured. Having seen two  burst before I waited in  a rather unhappy frame  of mind which was  shared by most around  I think for the next, as 
we felt so helpless sitting on  the top of the boat waiting  for her to finish loading &  move off. Soon afterwards  there was another whiz &  "plunk" went the shell into  the water near by without   exploding for which we  were thankful as it was  rather close, & then we  moved off. The scene on   the beach was a strange  sight, for the pile of stores  was still burning & this   lit up luridly the surroundings  showing the remnants of  destroyed ordinance lying  on the beach & the debris  left by the withdrawn  army - boxes of biscuits  & beef lying about, split   open, portions of clothing 
& baggage, & amongst these  the dark figures of the  columns of the troops  moving to their place of  embarkation. We were taken  out ^to sea by the barge & then put  aboard a larger vessel which  conveyed us to the harbour  of Mudros on Lemnos Island  In my description of the scene  above I omitted to describe the   sounds which accompanied  it - the intermittent rifle  fire from the heights of  Walkers Ridge above  us which is the usual  music on the Peninsula &  the occasional splash  
of bullets which had missed their marks & gone over into the water. Men were frequently wounded while landing from these “overs “as they were called & one man was killed & another wounded in the 3rd  L H Ambulance after I left there in the same way. The plans for embarkation in the following night were somewhat similar. Three parties were to leave from each regiment A B & C the first at six p.m. second at ten & third about three or four oclock in the morning bus The trenches of our whole Brigade were manned only by 200 men, but all the machine guns were 
there. 100 of the men left in the first party, 68 in the 2nd & 40 in the 3rd You can imagine what it meant to the 3rd & last party They had to hold their trenches at all costs if attacked till a certain time until the others got away & the spirit in which they entered on their task was magnificent In fact men were actually competing to have the honor of being in the last party to leave. As it turned out however m the Turk was completely deceived, no attack was made 
& the whole army came away without any casualties or at the most two or three wounded by stray bullets. What a difficult operation it was you can realize when I tell you that in many places as at The Apex, Walker's Ridge, Courtneys Popes & Quinns Hill the trenches were only separated by a few feet yards & in some cases feet & in one case they were actually occupying portion of the same trenches as the Turks & only separated by a few sandbags. Thus of course it was necessary for the men who remained till 
the end to try & maintain the usual amount of rifle fire & bomb throwing so as to preserve things as usual but the question was what would happen when it all suddenly ceased & the men were on their way to the boats x to surmount this difficulty to a certain extent an arrangement ingenious device was made in order to maintain some rifle fire for a while. X Several rifles were fixed in a wooden board with X a ∧continuous string attached to the trigger of each & a weights suspended to the string. Then candles 
X were placed between each rifle with the string running through them of different lengths & lighted when the men left & then when the candle burnt down to the string this was burnt through & the weight hanging from it fell & so pulled off the trigger of the rifle. X The candles were timed to burn the strings at intervals of about a quarter of an hour for every two hours. Also X an incident which had occurred some two or three weeks previously & which at the time appeared inexplicable X now showed in its true light
For orders had been given then for everyone to cease fire for two days & absolute silence to be preserved. We thought at the time it was a ruse to encourage the Turks to attack but it was evidently a blind to encourage them to believe that we would sometimes withhold our fire for some time. XBX The whole evacuation was beautiful, it was worked as if by the clock & everything went smoothly almost all the artillery mules of which there were two or three hundred were safely removed. In my short experience of military 
life I have never seen anything done as well XTo continue my personal experiences, we were all very tired when we boarded the boat for Lemnos & I lay down on the Saloon floor at two o'clock in the morning & slept for well till 7.30 am. Then rose & had breakfast just as we entered Mudros Harbour. There we were xxx transferred to a kind of Mosman ferry boat & taken some distance toward the pier then put on board smaller boats like trawlers & finally into small puffing billy steam boats from whence we were deposited on the pier. It was by this time about 
12.30 & we eat our lunch where we landed as we had all brought lunch provisions with us & then marched to our camping ground. We were fairly heavily laden with packs on back, water bottles, haversack & greatcoat that being all we could bring with us. Transport was however provided for sick mens & officers packs. I had sent my sleeping bag & kit bag away some days previously in company with other officer's luggage with some men to watch over it but have not seen it since - hope we 
will meet it in Egypt. We spent about four days at Lemnos under tents but I did not enjoy them as there was & could not be much comfort in a temporary camp. We slept on the ground of course & slept well, had our meals in picnic fashion sitting on our haunches & found considerable difficultly in having a good wash. We were all longing for a good bath & change of underclothes. I went out every day to get some extra provisions for our officer's mess, as we were near the Greek village of East Mudros in which there 
were a good number of shops which delighted in charging exorbitant prices for everything There was also a French canteen as the main French camp was situated near by & in it we were able to purchase quite a number of things principally tinned fish, fruit & wines. I was very interested in the French soldiers we saw, they are much more picturesquely attired then our men but I doubt if the uniforms are as serviceable. They were for the most part fine strapping fellows, in which I was agreeably surprised as 
the pictures I had seen had led me to believe otherwise. The most common dress was bluish grey in colour with overcoats of a similar color of c the cloth being a rough serge. The overcoats had always the front lower corners tucked back & fastened to the coat behind to allow freer movement in walking. Some wore pantaloons of different colors, some blue some bright red & some other colors. The coats were of a somewhat similar shape to our own buttoning up to the neck front. The caps are much flatter & narrower 
than our own with a particularly Frenchy appearance about them, & in the case of officers often had several bands of color running round them which added to the general appearance. The officers wore differently colored uniforms also & looked very smart, some havin the bluish grey color but more frequently they wore a dark blue uniform with bright buttons & various splashes of color. The most interesting body of troops I saw 
however were the black troops employed by the  French, I think they were Senegalese. Huge men they were, averaging fully six feet in height & broad in proportion with coal black faces shinin like ivory & glitterin white teeth & clad in a blue uniform with a red round red caps on their heads they presented a striking spectacle. I also visited the Greek chapel in Mudros East - a tawdry place after the magnificence of the mosques in Cairo & ornamented with large colored paintings of Christ, various saints & various Biblical scenes 
An old priest was in attendance who thankfully received some silver & burnt several tapers for the good of our souls. The priests are of a low class, one of them was engaged in selling fruit & nuts & they belong as you know to the Greek church which is so powerful in Russia & other parts of Europe We embarked much to our satisfaction after four or five days stay on the Island but in 
doing so I with several other of our officers was separated from the main body of our troops regiment as sufficient accommodation for officers was not available on the ship in which they were embarking & we were put on another boat. She proved to be a fine vessel one of the captive NorDeutcher Lloyd boats & we have been very comfortable save that the boat was is very crowded. I have written this letter at intervals on the trip & am now in the harbour of Alexandria safe from the submarine peril for 
which we are very thankful. The voyage occupied two days & the weather has been delightful & the sea calm save for a little anxiety in regard to submarines which however was very small as none of us was thought much of them, the trip has been very pleasant The novel x experience of entering a bath x full of hot water, lying x on spring mattresses x sitting at a table & x eating from off a tablecloth with stewards to wait on
us & plenty of plates & cutlery available was & is by no means unpleasant. We are just now waiting for the military authorities to determine when & where we shall land & where we shall go & as soon as I have the opportunity & enough money (for at Anzac we never carried much & my finances are very small just now until I reach the pay office) I intend to send you a cablegram which I suppose will not be far behind the Christmas one I sent from Anzac If I have the opportunity while passing through
Alexandria I shall endeavour to seek out Miss Gwen Evans but we may be carried straight away to Cairo without the opportunity of calling anywhere I must now conclude my long & dreary epistle which I hope will not bore you overmuch but which I should like you to preserve for me as I have noted down most of my recollections, with best of love to all & a double share to mother from Her affectionate Son,  Wilf.


Please keep  this letter within  your own circle as I  don't know if I should have  written as much as I have done.*]   