Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 7 April 1917
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


7.4.1917. My dear mother, Three of your welcome letters arrived by last mail with quite a number of others so I had a splendid time reading them all. I think now some of them had been delayed in transit as  my previous mails had been scanty. I also received  quite a number of papers, a "Life" from you, Sydney Mail from Em, Bulletins and Messengers from Harry & some Candelo Records from you. What a splendid  season you are having, the dear old hills must  be a picture. I can see the view from the back & front verandah in my mind's eye very distinctly just now. I suppose all the farmers are [[coming]] money now & business fairly brisk in spite of the war. I hear the  United States have joined in now, though not yet confirmed, & I’m very pleased, the  more the merrier, say I, & the quicker we
get home. I think in my last letter I  told you about the fighting near Gaza  so I won't repeat it this time. It was  the division to which Cousin John Evans  is attached that was principally engaged  so I suppose he had plenty of work  to do. I have been intending to look  him up, but E work here has rather  tied me down lately & I don't quite know  where he is situated. We are comfortably  settled again for the time being, goodness  knows for how long & quite enjoy  sitting about in camp again, as we  had rather a hard time during the  operations. We go for a swim almost  every day, it is only about 200  yards to the sea & the water is becoming  nice & warm now. The only trouble  is that an old Roman causeway runs along the beach for the most  part a good deal broken up & it  is only where there are gaps in it that  it is comfortable to go in on account  of cutting ones feet on the rocks.  Now where these gaps are everyone  goes in & so everyone undresses in  the same place & as most or a good  number of the men have a few lice on  them the risks are great as I found  to my cost the other day when I  discovered a louse on my shirt. It's  the first time I have found one on  me since I've been in the military  so I think I'm very lucky, but  since then I have undergone a  thorough disinfection & feel less  creepy than I did when I saw  it first. I went over the other day  with the Colonel to see Major now Colonel  White who was with us & has now charge of another Ambulance & they persuaded  me to stay to dinner & have a little game  of cards afterwards. I got home  about 10.45p.m. & the first thing  that greeted me was an intimation  that I was to leave at 4 a.m. next  morning with portion of the Ambulance  which was accompanying part of the   Brigade on outpost duty. Bad luck  wasn't it? However after being up for  a few minutes next morning I didn't   feel any worse for it & we spent the  day out in the front covering some  people who were doing some work.  A few Turks were sighted in the  distance & some shots exchanged  but that was all. The profusion  of wild flowers in these districts  is marvellous, many of them  just like those in Australia. The whole ground underneath the  grass is covered with wild poppies  everlasting daisies dandelions,  & numbers of others I don't know  the names of, but everywhere one  goes they are as thick as can be.  The weather is becoming perceptibly  warmer but has not so far nearly  approached the heat of Serapeum  & those other places on the canal.  I had a letter from Bill Stewart  this week, you remember him I suppose,  he tells me he is in England in the  Infantry expecting to go to France  shortly. How he got in with those  eyes of his I can't imagine,  he went through an officer's  school but could not get a   commission, finally came away  as a Sergeant which rank he had to drop when he reached England  as a reinforcement as they always do,  he is now a corporal & expects  to revert again when he joins  his battalion in France. Poor  old Bill what a bad time he  must have as a Private in the Infantry  No more news my dear must close  with lots of love & a hug.  from  Your loving son,  Wilf.