Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 11 December 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


11 .12. 1916  My dear mother,  Your welcome registered letter arrived a few days after  the other one - I can't just lay my hands on it at present to see if  there is anything to reply to. We are still in the same place &  are fairly well settled & comfortable though we have been disturbed  lately by frequent alarms - have been turned out to "boot & saddle"  at very short notice but nothing eventuated. On the last  occasion when we had all assembled & our old Brigadier  was giving a speech a hostile aeroplane appeared  overhead & so we all had to scatter in quick time as  bombs might have a big effect on troops packed closely  together. Since I last wrote you, Stewart & Cave who are in  this Ambulance have been promoted to be Majors, they have been  out since the very beginning of the war so were quite due for  it. Stewart has been transferred to another Ambulance &   another fellow named Bassett has been sent here. I am   now doing the job of Adjutant which includes all the office  work, returns Etc. It is good experience from a military  point of view as one sees all the running of things, for everything  passes through your hands. Colonel Downes now A. D. M S of  this division, formally C.O. of this Ambulance came over to  lunch last week also Dawson who is from Sydney & has  now got his Lieutenant Colonelrey & one or two others so we  had quite a party.  Our cook whom I have mentioned before turned out a first class three course  luncheon. He always gives us splendid tucker, can  manufacture all sorts of good dishes from very little.  We are very fortunate in having him as a good cook  makes all the difference. We have had some frozen  mutton lately which is a splendid change from beef.  I went for a ride two or three days ago with  some other officers from the Brigade to some very  interesting ruins situated on the sea coast -  miles from here. We took our lunch boiled the billy  - I had some sardines & fruit Mab had sent, bread  jam, & someone else provided cream cheese & chocolates  - not a bad little spread. We had these in  the  shelter of the ruins. They have only partially been  excavated & are still largely covered with sand  They are quite extensive & some little distance from  what appears to have been the city is an old temple  probably Greek & it has some crosses in parts  so must have been Christian & dates back some  1600 or 1700 years. It is 115 yards long by  50 broad, the walls are all demolished but  the bases of the ivory marble pillars of which  there were about twenty still remain & a  couple of the pillars themselves lie on the  ground. The floor was also of marble slab & at one end there was a kind of sacrificial altar  & at the other a baptismal font. On either side  were tombs & beneath was a gallery & in the church  were twelve statues of the apostles which were  I  believe removed by the Germans last year. It  had a fine old courtyard of which little trace  remains but much broken glass is lying about.  The old town was built of a kind of stone apparently  manufactured from shells sand & lime & part of it  seems to have been an old monastery - maltese crosses  cut in the walls & niches which may have contained  images & so on. The country must have been very  different then to support such a place - it is known  of course that one branch of the Nile entered the sea  between here & the canal but not so far East as  this. The weather is still beautiful & we are steadily  fattening. I am sending you the first of a series  of panoramas which Cave took & of which he kindly  ordered some more prints . He takes splendid photographs  & these are very valuable. The first is our Ambulance on a dry  swamp, stretcher bearers in front sand carts behind. They are  numbered 1 2 3 4 from left to right & they will require fitting carefully  together by getting the exact part where one joins the other  cutting away the unnecessary part & then pasting them together  at the back. I think this one is fair in fairly good  line lengthways so will not need any cutting off the top  & bottom to make it even but only at the junction of the photos. So No I 1st on the left my dear then  No ĪĪ on its right & so on. In order to keep them you  may need to have a board to form a back so that  you can keep them all safe & sound against it  but some of the others are longer than this one. No more news today my dear, much love to  all & a good hug to mother from  Her loving son  Wilf.