Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 24 July 1915
Location: Zeitoun Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


5th & 6th Training Battalions  Zeitoun,  Cairo,  July 24th,  1915.  My dear mother,  You will observe a  change of address above but please  address all letters as before to the 1st  Aust. General Hospital, Heliopolis  Cairo. I think I told you in my last   letter of our trip at the Red Sea. We  arrived at Suez on the 17th & disembarked  on the 18th July & on that day I had an   opportunity of going through Suez. Three  trains were detailed to take the troops to  Cairo & I was to go in the 2nd which  left at 12.30 daytime. We obtained  permission from our O.C. to go ashore  but on doing so found our Colonel  blocked by a picket on shore who  refused to let him pass, as instructions  had been given by the shore commandant  that no one was to be allowed ashore. He  then rang up the shore commandant &  obtained permission for four men to go  ashore to escort the nurses so we managed
to pass through & five of us took along  three nurses in two garries (You will  remember those broken down vehicles with  two skinny neddies in them). After going  a small distance we encountered about  ten or fifteen more nurses & had to provide  some more garries & proceeded merrily  on our way. We drove along by the canal  & on to the township & through it's narrow  Eastern streets, which rather made me think  that I was dreaming or looking at  picture post cards. They are so narrow  & twisted with houses three or four stories  high on each side, apparently built  from laths & cement with no verandahs  of any kind & containing apparently hundreds  of people judging by the numbers of people  at the windows. We stopped at a mosque  & some of the party went in after covering  their feet with slippers The remainder soon  had a large party of curious natives  around them admiring & inspecting their  personal appearance. We drove along to  the gardens which derive their water  supply from a small channel of fresh  water which comes from the Nile about  100 miles away & supplies water to Suez
We drove back after partaking of some  tea & bread just in time to catch our  train. Only a few of the nurses & two medicos  (Kirkwood & I) went by that train with  a large body of troops. We started out  over the hot burning desert & as we left  the sea it gradually became hotter & hotter as  we became surrounded by the sands. We  remained in sight of the canal for some  little considerable distance, as far as  x Ishmalia  [*x Ishmalia Yes that is correct*]   (I think it was,) which is beyond the spot where  the canal widens out into the Bitter lakes. We  followed the course of the canal which  supplies Suez & spots of green were found along  it among the desert, & as we proceeded this  green became a continuous narrow strip along  the small canal & finally stretched out as  far as the eye could see & no desert   was visible but in it's place beautiful  verdure everywhere. I have never seen  such closely cultivated & settled country  in my life as this irrigated & rich land.  The canal, at first only small grew  in width & where at first we saw  only small boats towed by a rope  from the shore we finally saw sailing  boats or dhows of quite fair size. The change from desert to cultivation was the  most interesting I have ever seen & all  depending entirely upon the Nile which  practically spills Egypt as the rainfall  is only about one inch per year. The  irrigation system is marvellous,  from the larger canals smaller canals  run off at right angles & from these  smaller channels in the various beds  which can practically be submerged.  This is in the poorer parts nearer Suez.  Farther up in the large areas it brings  back Biblical matters very vividly. They have  a kind of buffalo used as oxen & these  are seen all along the canal going round in  a circle, & turning a pump, which propels  water into channels which flow to the beds.  Others have the old Archimedes wheel turned  by hand - it is a hollow wooden cylinder  so arranged that by turning it, the  water enters by the lower end which is  placed in the stream & flows out at the  top end, a few feet higher up, & then into  the trench. They have no horses, but goats  mules donkeys cows & a hybrid kind of  buffalo. The land is very closely cultivated  & very few roads of any pretentions exist,
but mainly bridle tracks used by a single  animal. No vehicles were seen by me, everything  apparently carried on the backs of donkeys  mules or camels. They have two big bags  on each side of the animal which can   be filled with any material, soil vegetables  Etc. The houses are weird, built entirely  of mud, as there is very little wood obtainable  in many cases a whole village is crowded  together practically under one roof, with many  divisions & each has it's mosque. They grow  maize, & watermelons, & large numbers of low  shrubby looking things, I think cotton  These formed the largest part of the cultivation  but I could form no accurate idea of  what the crops were. We arrived at Cairo  about six o'clock in the evening. & came  out to Heliopolis which is about four  miles distant immediately & on to the hotel  We are a An electric railway connects Cairo  with Heliopolis & takes only a very few minutes  to run - about 20 minutes is the usual time,  much faster than our Sydney trams, but  there are few stops. A tram also runs  here but I have not travelled on it.  The electric railway carries one carriage  just like a tram but has 1st & 2nd class.
1st class costs 2 piastres each way  (1 piastre =2½d), half price to the military.  They are inscribed in French as everything  here bears the mark of the French who seemed  to have been the dominating race. There are  a great mixture of peoples black & white  from all quarters of the globe. We had  nothing to do for two or three days & went  to Cairo a couple of times & did a little  shopping but so far have not seen  much of the city, will describe it later I  hope. Last Wednesday (it is now Sunday) I  suddenly received orders to come out here  & report for duty, to take care of the 5th  & 6th training battalions about 1500 men.  I am kept going fairly constantly & am  very pleased as I was growing tired of  inactivity. I have to look after the  sanitation of the camp & the health of  the men. Generally 150 men have  presented themselves at sick parade  in the morning, & it takes me the whole   morning to do them & go round the  camp & odd jobs in the afternoon.  I have a tent to myself, an orderly  who was picked out for me by a friend  in who is a lieutenant & knew some  good men, & I also have a horse, & went for a ride yesterday afternoon  I am only here temporarily & was told that  I can go back to the hospital when  I tire of this. We are in the desert here  some 2 miles from the hospital at  Heliopolis, but I really believe it is  cooler here. There are a lot of Ceylon  planters here as officers who have English  fashions & speech highly developed.  Am very tired so must close for this  mail with best love to all  from  Your loving son,  Wilf.  P.S. I am very well, eating well  sleeping well & the heat is not  very exacting, not very much  hotter than Sydney.