Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 28 July 1917
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


28.7.1917 My dear mother, Your very welcome letters of June 7th & May 31st arrived safely yesterday after being directed to Cairo & then re-directed here. The parcel of tobacco arrived at the Ambulance the day before I returned & was sent on to Cairo but I hope it will come back all right. Since last writing to you from Cairo I received orders to return here as some block arose in my appointment in Cairo, due to outside influences being brought to bear to keep Colonel Dawson (the man whom I was to relieve) in Cairo. So I received a wire to report to the headquarters of the Australian Mounted Division where I am at present attached & doing very little work. I had about 10 days in Cairo altogether, stayed for a few days at the Continental Hotel but as that grew too expensive I went to a boarding house for a while where it was cheaper & quieter. Cairo was terribly hot, at night hardly a breath of air & I often woke up about 3 or 4 a.m. in a cold sweat & remained so the rest of the night. The work I was 
doing there was not very exacting - a few hours each day in the office constituted the whole of it, dealing with the various medical units about Cairo, shipping & so on. The chief trouble was lack of exercise as it is so hot that it is very difficult to get about & do muscular exercise of any kind. I went down to Ismailia one day on business, had not time to see Jack again though he was not very far away. Since I went to Cairo the division here has come on to the beach for a spell & it is really magnificent - we are camped right on the sea beach so close that one night it came into our bivouac & washed us out & we had hurriedly to move our wet things to another spot It is really glorious here though, we have several swims daily & can sit in our bivouacs & watch the breakers only a few yards away & enjoy the cool breeze blowing off them. I had a rather rough trip up from Cairo, too, in an open truck again but would you believe it, slept almost the whole way, after spreading my blankets on the floor & making myself as comfy as possible. While in Cairo nearly 300 nurses arrived from Australia & among them were many who had been at the same hospitals as myself in Sydney & they did seem pleased to see a known face in a strange land. So lately I have been running about quite a lot & don't seem quite settled yet as I am unattached so far & just gaining experience on divisional headquarters. However it's a very easy life & I think I am doing less work than I have ever done for a long time & that is saying a lot for the military life as we are generally not overworked. No more news this time my dear, expect I will see Jack again before very long - he looks well & so do I so cheer up my dear with best of love from Your loving son Wilf. 