Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 28 November 1915
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Anzac Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:

9th L.H. Regiment,  Anzac,  November 28th 1915  My dear mother, I am writing to you this time from my bunk as it is the warmest spot, my feet right away down in my blankets & the upper part of my body clad in undershirt pjama coat, cardigan & sheep skin to keep me warm while I write. The weather is now bitterly cold & last night we had a fairly heavy fall of snow following rain so that the place is moderately slushy. It is been snowing a little today but has eased off tonight but there are still two or three inches of snow on the ground - reminds one of Cooma as also do the winds, which are fairly high and bleak. We find make ourselves very comfortable at night like this by going to bed as soon as tea is finished & smoking a pipe or  reading until it is time to go to sleep - generally about nine o'clock.  I am still in my old bivouac or dug out (bivvy for short) with the New Zealand medico as his cover had not arrived until it rained  & snowed and now we are waiting until the ground dries before moving.  Pray don't imagine that I'm getting frozen because I'm not, when I went for  a walk through the snow covered trenches this morning I had my rubber Wellington boots on
which effectively kept my feet dry (which reminds me of Eden & Mrs Chopin laughing at  you about worrying lest my feet should get wet on the beach - poor mother how the various vicissitudes of life separate us at the call of duty & how little motherly powers of protection avail us in later years, but it is only for you I am distressed, I am doing here what I should be doing & as I previously told you there should be no regrets in my doing so, for it  is to help others & our country & I hope you are satisfied long before this, not but that I am looking forward to a happy reunion in the months to come) & to proceed,  an overcoat and rainproof cap & I quite enjoyed a brisk walk round to see that the sanitation was good, & had a look in at the mens bivouacs in the trenches which are dug out  from the sides & roofed over with tin if available  or waterproof sheets & generally hold about  six men in each.  They seemed for the most  part fairly dry & comfortable though there were a few grumblers as there always will be, but some were quite cheerful & happy. Of course it is not the best occupation in the world for men on a cold night to take their turns of  observation in the trenches - two hours on & four off -  but no one expects war to be a picnic & the authorities are doing their very best to look after the men. I think I am not overstepping  the censorable mark in saying these things though one has to be very careful. Being on a hill here with a fairly steep ascent the roads became very slippery with the road so that the  commissariat department had their trials on bringing up stores but they succeeded very well. You doubtless now that mules & donkeys are very largely used for transport & they are wonderful creatures, horses would be of very little use, but these animals are quiet & can carry such big loads up steep ascents & are so readily  handled except when they become stubborn. Wesley   & I see each other almost every day as the distance between us is so short & we can easily visit each other in  the afternoon. Parry of whom you have heard me speak before & who is with the 16th Battalion paid us a visit this week & told us his various experiences Three tins of soup arrived from Egypt this week sent  according to order by Stephen so that one or two of the parcels we ordered asked him to send manage to  come through safely but not the chocolate. I'm going to write & ask him to send some baking powder soon as up to the present it has been unprocurable on the Peninsula. It is very difficult for me to  write you a decent newsy letter my dear, as we only see a few people, & apart from personal matters we can really say very little on account of censorship. We have had no mail again this week worse luck, I suppose it all went down with that ship. I am longing to hear from you again but suppose that some of your letters are at the bottom of the sea - better luck next time. It's wonderful how one appreciates letters out here even more than in Egypt as we seem so cut off from the outside world. I have now been here for two months - time has flown since I came over here seems to have passed much quicker than in  Egypt. I'm afraid I'll have to end a most uninteresting letter with love to all  the family with mother's usual share  from  Her loving son, Wilf. 