Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 9 July 1917
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


9.7.17. My dear mother, Your welcome letter of 21st May to hand today - comparatively shortly after the last lot which must have been delayed somewhere or other. Very glad to hear that you are well & that you have been having a few visitors though it must be very awkward without a maid Your letters must now be increasing in numbers as Jack has left - I had another note from him in Moasca where he is in isolation, he had not at that time received my last letter. I asked two or three of my friends to look him up while at Moasca. By the way I saw Myrt Connell when in Cairo last time in Hospital - I was passing through a ward & up pops Myrt from a table. He was convalescent & didn't look much worse for his illness. I received news this week that my majority had been cabled out from England & though it has not yet been out in our "Orders" it will come through in a few days so you can address the next letters as Major instead of Captain which is perhaps some improvement. 
Since I last wrote you I have had a busy & rather varied week - we went out on a long reconnaissance nearly to Beersheba  one day & very hot & thirsty it was sitting near that Biblical city, as the country is absolutely without shade. We were shelled by the enemy during the day very thoroughly but had very few casualties indeed. It is marvellous how many shells can be fired & how few people hit when they are spread out over the country. The Ambulance consequently  had little to do all day, we settled down in a wadi or gully, but moved out of our first position as the shells began to come rather close. It was very funny to watch the performance, the men hav had fed their horses & were commencing to make tea when suddenly whiz! bang! in the vicinity. The tea was completely forgotten in the excitement & as several men followed, we ordered feeds to be taken off the horses, & on saddle and away. The water in the drums got spilt of course in the general scramble. However we found a new spot & made ourselves comfy there for the rest of the day, lack of shade being the chief trouble. I managed to prop a stretcher rather precariously about 2 feet above the ground on two pieces of deal board & lay under it, dodging the sun as it moved round the sky. We got back to camp very tired & thirsty. A couple of days after that we moved back from the front line & are now camped in the same spot as we were about 6 weeks ago. The day after we came in I went over to the beach with Cave, who was once in this unit & is now D.A.D.M.S. in this division, to spend the week end with Stewart who is in charge of a Rest Camp on the beach & very well situated. We had a splendid time for a couple of days, the water was glorious & we had 3 swims a day, eat huge meals, slept plenty & generally all enjoyed ourselves. We had all been together before in this Ambulance & so knew each other well. The Rest camp is an institution for men who are run down & are sent there to recuperate & each division has one which can take 200 patients. They get splendid food & have nothing to do except loll about on the beach & swim. They There is a band which plays morning & evening & the Red Cross Society in it's usual splendid way is assisting with gramophones, extra food comforts, clothing, tooth brushes shaving brushes Etc Etc. I only came back this morning & received your letter. (Please don't think I was there as a patient - no officers are taken, but just went for a run like we used to do in the olden days). In a few more days I am to go up to Divisional Headquarters for training in work on the medic staff there, so that in the future if a vacancy occurred I might be appointed as D.A.D.M.S. (Deputy Assistant Director of Medical Services) or some such job. No more news, my dear, lots of love & hugs from your loving son Wilf. 