Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 26 April 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:

9th L.H. Regiment. 26.4.1916  My dear mother, Here we are again in the same old spot, & I am pleased to say that another letter arrived from you this week. You asked me in one letter how the Egyptians did up roast meat. They first of all bake it until all the juice is gone out of it & it is as dry & tasteless as leather, then they cut it up into a multitude of square slices about 2½ inches across & ¼ inch thick - I think it is taken from the bone before cooking & cut into slices after being cooked.   It is brought to the table thus always half cold & generally has some queer green mush round it something like lucerne chewed up by a cow, or with some small cucumber arrangements with indigestible seeds cooked whole & eaten thus.   Generally no potatoes. Gippys can't cook English food & never will & they are always filthy & always will be. One takes his life in his hand if he eats grapes or other fruit which can't be peeled. So you can imagine that it is a relief to have one's own cooks again. Wesley & I went for a trip to
Ismalia last Thursday & quite enjoyed ourselves I fear that censorship forbids me to say how we arrived there but our chief reason for going is that Wesley is somewhat enamoured of a lady who wears a nurse's uniform & he wanted some support on his journey & though not anxious to go at the time as it is a tedious journey for one day I allowed myself to be persuaded. We interviewed the object of his affections when we arrived there had lunch (a very good one) at the French club met the lady who was accompanied by another in order to keep me quiet I suppose, about three o'clock. We hired a boat & went for a row on the small lake there & just as you do in Candilo took a Thermos flask with tea & some very nice cake provided by the ladies which we enjoyed at four o'clock. Charles appeared to be progressing very well as far as I could see & they both appeared pleased with each other, so the day must be considered a success For my part acting as I did as a support or reinforcement or whatever you might call it I enjoyed it fairly well. We returned about six o'clock dined & then retraced our rather weary way home. Since then I have been jogging along much as usual save that I developed a slight
sore throat two or three days ago & strange to say so did Wesley, though any connection between that & our Ismalia trip we both fail to see, though some unkind people have suggested it to us. Mine is quite better now though it was troublesome for a day or two. Weather is becoming frightfully warm now much to our disgust & we don't do much in the middle of the day. The flies too are thicker than I have ever seen them & very persistent & during the writing of this I have had to take refuge behind some mosquito netting but the wretches get in there too & are very difficult to drive out. The Turks are showing some activity lately not so much just at this point, but we could here this morning the boom of artillery & crackle of guns rifles away up North. So far we have been very quiet here. I think this is all the news I can do this time my dear, so goodbye with best of love to all & mother's usual share from Her loving son, Wilf.