Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 30 December 1917
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


30.12.1917. My dear Harry, Your welcome note of 15th October arrived a couple of days ago. You asked about the amount of surgical experience one obtains here & from your letter I think you have quite an erroneous idea on the subject, for the amount of medical or surgical experience one obtains here is absolutely nil. The only place where one obtains any such experience of any use is at base hospital & I fully realized when I determined to leave it over  two years ago that I was giving that up. In the field one's time so far as advancement in the profession goes is completely wasted & my capacity as a medical practitioner now as compared with that when I left Australia is diminished by some hundreds per cent & becomes worse as time goes on. For that reason I would be very glad to return if I could & pick up again but one can hardly consider one's own personal prospects at a time of national crisis such as this. And certainly I would not be content to try & squeeze myself into a nice comfortable job at the base at the expense of an older & probably married man. It hurt considerably at first to realize how much it blighted ones professional career, but I have long since ceased troubling & resigned myself to the hope of going back to a hospital after the war or whenever I return & getting professionally fit once more.
Of course in the military world as elsewhere there are selfish people who stick if they can in hospital jobs but no one here has any time for such people at all & I certainly don't want to be among them. Medical work in the field consists of only very elementary treatment as all serious cases are  sent on to hospital & in the administrative position one has none at all. Still I can't grumble as I am very well off indeed in my present position. We had a very wet Christmas here & as we are away up in the rocky hills of Judaea it was jolly cold too & we spent most of the time, each in his own little bivouac trying to keep dry. The Turk has had another nasty knock here during the last few days, the people on our right have  been giving him beans & seizing some coveted heights & we also have been advancing but have met with practically no resistance. The country we have just advanced over is simply appalling, consisting of a succession of steep rocky hills & deep gullies or wadis as they are called here. It is absolutely impossible to take a vehicle of any kind along until the stones are cleared away & a road made & beyond the points where this is done the problem of removing any wounded is a great one. The old camel is doing  most of it back to the wagons & if this continues some form of mule litter will have to be adopted I think as the poor old camel's feet are not made  to traverse stony country. I like the hills though, I have always done so - environment in boyhood I suppose, I don't wonder that old David managed to hide himself away in these places. I described my trip to Jerusalem in mother's letter which you will receive in due course - so I won't repeat it again. Jack & myself are both very fit indeed & enjoy our occasional meetings. h I have to trot away now & arrange some matters about distribution of Ambulances on account of a move in sight so must cl conclude with love to Lin & the kiddies from  Your loving brother Wilf. Padré Gordon was here for Xmas he always asks about you - his bivouac got beautifully wet too!!!