Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 23 February 1917
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:

23.2.1917
My dear mother, Once again in the Ambulance in our old camp, having a quiet peaceful time. I opened the parcel you sent me in the cake tin I remember so well & thoroughly enjoyed exploring it's mysteries. The cake, my dear, as usual was a beauty & we had it for afternoon tea for several days. And the "Lucy Hinton" was indeed welcome to say nothing of the tooth brush nuts & chocs. They are not all eaten yet but are being spread over several days. I wish I could return you the cake tin but I don't believe you would own it now, it's so horribly dinged by the treatment it received en route. I will fill in cheque & send it by this letter as directed by you & will also write Mr Bloomfield. Our Colonel is going on leave to Luxor tomorrow - lucky man & I will be all alone in charge of the Ambulance for a few days, as Major White left us this week to take charge of another Ambulance which means promotion for him to rank of Colonel I presume. Then another officer is away with several of our sandcarts to assist another Ambulance during a "stunt" which has just taken place. Gun Brigade did not go this time so I am not seeing anything. It only  took place today & I don't know how they got along yet but you will probably read about it in a day or too in Candelo. So I am the only officer here now & will have a fairly busy time for a few days now, as I am Sanitary Officer to our Brigade (not Division as I was for a few days) now. You know I suppose my dear what a Brigade is & also a Division - In a Brigade there are 3 Regiments, with Field Ambulance, artillery & other small units. Therethere A Brigade is commanded by a Brigadier General. Then in a Division there are several ^complete Brigades under a Major General. We are all rather hurt at present as our old division - Anzac Mounted Division - which has done practically all the work in ousting the Turks from Sinai in the last 12 months & earned a fine reputation (even though I say it myself), - has now been split up & you will no longer see the word Anzac used in the papers in connection with mounted troops but simply Imperial mounted troops as we have been mixed up with others. Our Brigades remain distinct so my address is the same but we now no longer have all Australian Brigades in the Division. I suppose it's for the common good but we don't like our dear old Anzac Mounted Division being  split up. I found one of my teeth going, this week I so went up to our Immobile Section to the dentist who is attached to us & had it filled yesterday - he is a very good thorough man named Pye from Penrith I think. He is about 50 years of age too so he is doing his bit with a vengeance, especially as he lost two sons on Gallipoli. I had a letter from Wesley this week, he is  well but does not seem enamoured with the English winter. Can't think of any more news this time my dear so will close with lots of love & a hug from Your loving son Wilf.