Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 26 November 1917
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:



26.11.1917  My dear mother, I am endeavouring to complete my account of the trip to you before writing other letters & am seizing the first opportunity of adding to my former account. Since I wrote we had some more mail, papers mainly but I received two letters from you a few days ago. I wish I could be with you at present to help decide your choice of home but can do nothing from here, only hope that you may be satisfactorily settled - I still think Parsley Bay a good spot. I completed my account until our arrival at Huj where there was so much abandoned ammunition & the evacuation of wounded from Jemmama to Sheria. I left off just when I was chasing the Division into an unknown land in a motor Ambulance, without a map as I we had gone so far that we passed the scope of the one I had. However I struck Eastwards until I found the Turkish railway running from Sheria in a N. Easterly direction to El Tina where it joined the Gaza line & from there it ran on to join the Jerusalem line at Junction Station. When I met it I turned North also as I knew the Division were to camp somewhere near it about 10 miles further North . At this period we passed through open rolling country intersected here & there by deep wadis, & dotted with mud villages. Large flocks of sheep & a few cows were grazing & some few miles East were the hills among which lay Jerusalem. These hills looked very rugged & uninviting. None of our troops were to be seen just here & we pushed on Northwards along the railway in the gathering darkness until we could go no further that night. By this time we had come into contact with some men of other Divisions but not our own, so we decided to camp for the night. We made tea & afterwards turned in to bed - very tired indeed after a long & heavy day. Camped near by were a couple of  sandcarts also looking for their unit. Next morning we set off at daybreak in search of the DIvision & found them about 8 a.m. It was fortunate that we had stopped where we did on the previous night, as the place I was trying to reach & where I was told the Division was to be, was held not by our people at all, but possibly by the Turks. On my arrival I found our people at breakfast & I joined them with a will & afterwards reported what we had done to Col Dixon. He told me then that another dressing station had been opened some six miles South from where we then were, on the previous day, at a spot called Hissi. Our trouble now was that we were so much farther from our base, & the camels which travel only very slowly were not leaving Sheria, after taking back their load of wounded from Jemmama, until the next morning & it was very problematical when they would arrive, as they  might have difficulty in finding us .We had only two ^motor Ambulances left also, so the task of getting our wounded & sick back was exceptionally difficult. We hoped to get then away partially on supply wagons returning but these did not come twice to the same spot & there was no continuous ah service backwards. Col Dixon decided however that we were now travelling N East & were nearing the main road from Gaza to Jaffa along the coast & in that case all our traffic ÷ supplies, sick wounded, etc would have to be switched off from the route we had come, on to the Northern route where there was a good road. His conclusion turned out later to be correct, but in the meantime we were hopelessly stranded, as the Division expected to move on & then would be left in the 'blue' the Tent division of an Ambulance with it's sick & wounded, without means of evacuation & without rations as once the Division moved on, no rations would come that way. I've tried to draw a map but Jerusalem is too far South, but I'm trying to show that the line of evacuation via Huj from where we now were at Feluja was terribly extended back to Shellal, whereas it was quite short to get on to the good Northern wadi back to Gaza. 
You see we had attacked from the flank & driven right in & so were now near this Northern road along which other troops were advancing who had taken Gaza & along which supplies were easy & also sick evacuations. However in the end we decided to bring up our sick & wounded from Hissi to Feluja where we then were & give up the idea of sending them back to Feluja & then to the Northern road. So I set off to Hissi with the two motor Ambulances expecting to find there only 8 or 10 sick. But on my arrival I found 40 sick & wounded & Turks included so it seemed a hopeless impossibility to move them up to Feluja. Some sick horses however were going back to euf Sheria & passing a place called Amiedat where I had heard there was a dressing station as a link in the chain so I put some men who were only suffering from septic sores which are rather prevalent here & sent them off. I returned to Col Dixon & we talked it over again & finally decided to borrow some riding horses to bring up the rest & send a few sandcarts down for the worst cases, & in the end we got the lot up to Feluja that night. All well so far but sick were coming in fast, as men were now getting worn out & a good deal of diarrhoea & septic  sores, & our total soon reached a hundred. We heard next morning that some supply lorries were coming out & that we could evacuate by this means & I got into touch with the fellow in charge & he told me that he could not say definitely when he would come to, but it would be either one of two places which depended on whether he could cross a certain wadi or not. 
So I said very well, I will move to the first of these  two places & you can let me know if you are not coming there &  I will move to the second. So I moved all my patients by means  of the limited transport at my disposal, several trips being  made to do it & just as we were fixed up, a message came to say that he could not come to that spot & would I move another couple of miles to the other.  It was heartbreaking but had to be done & so we moved off again, & finally settled in the new place. That evening the Turks  made a heavy counter-attack on our Division & in great  strength & after a severe struggle were driven off with heavy loss. Of course this fighting meant a certain number of casualtys to us also & these came in at dusk & after darkness set in & our people were very busy, as they had to do an amputation & one or two other urgent operations. No supply lorries turned up & they had been diverted to another spot altogether, after all the trouble I had taken to go to their unloading spot. Fortunately, however, the camels we had sent back to Sheria from Jemmama had turned up & we had some means of transport. So I also heard that one of our mobile Receiving Stations to which we evacuated had been opened on the main Northern road some ten miles distant from where we then were, & this was very joyful news, as we now had some place not far away to evacuate to. So I set off in the early morning with the cars & the camels following & we cleared all our patients that day to out very great relief, packed up our Tent Divisions & moved off to join the Division again. During this particular day & the next the Infantry & some of the other mounted troops had some hard fighting ending eventually in the capture of Jerusalem Junction Station as you will have read. This was most important as it cut Jerusalem off from railway communication & it now had to depend on road transport. On our way up we passed many interesting things - one aerodrome I saw which the Turks had destroyed, with the remains of  three aeroplanes in it which they had been compelled to burn. At El Tira, the junction of the Gaza & Sheria railway lines there was a huge ordinance & engineering store with all kinds of equipment. For the next two or three days we stayed about this part & then pushed on into Junction Station itself the day after it's capture. It is a typical military depot. The country previously had been beautiful undulating  land, dotted with pretty villages every two or three miles & even at this season of the year containing the remains of old crops. The soil seemed magnificent but the old primitive wooden plough is still used & the combination of a donkey & ox, or camel & ox as a means of traction seemed to us rather incongruous. The villages all seemed prosperous & each contained a certain amount of stores of grain & tibbin. There were a h certain number of flocks but the  Turks had removed all horses & animals suitable for transport. Strangely enough there are a number of green trees to be seen intermingled with olive & sycamore which are so typical of the Holy Land. The inhabitants are mainly Bedouin & Arab & look very much the same as the pictures in illustrated Bibles I don't think they have changed much since the days of Adam. There is however a sprinking of Jews who have villages of their own very neat & tidy they are too & red tiled in contrast to the mud - roofs of the native villages. Oranges are in abundance - Jaffa is as you know famous for them & we pay at the rate of 6 for a piastre (2½d) the correct & usual price is though, about 50 for 1/- but they soon become cunning & charge a  piastre each if they can obtain it. I was commencing to describe Junction Station when I was led astray into a description of the country before it. To continue, Junction is among the foothills of the mountains of Judaea & having been a military centre is bare of vegetation & the  town consisted of red tiled oblong barracks painted white for the most part. A fine station, two storied, however had been recently built & a splendid residence for the stationmaster, they had a big pumping plant & a fountain in the centre. There were large stores of tibbin & grain, & flour which they had left in their haste. We immediately made away with some of their flour which is very coarse & makes a very dark heavy bread, but it proved useful for porridge as we  had run out of that kind of store in our wanderings & were ready to seize anything. The town was very dirty & smelt badly as fighting had been fierce about it & numerous dead animals lay around. The Germans & Turks evidently did not anticipate leaving it as very numerous buildings were in process of construction, railway lines were being laid down & at one place there was a large number of huge pits dug into the ground & covered with sleepers & earth which were evidently meant for the storage  of ammunition. New railway lines had been laid to feed  these also, & there were also a lot of light Decauville lines with rolling stock for it also. The main Turkish railway gauge is one metre which is the usual German size & the  sleepers are all iron & not wooden as we always see. The bridge at Junction Station was in a sad state after some charges of high explosive. There was a Turkish hospital there also & very dirty one at that, full of wounded & with a medical staff of three or four doctors. The whole place was so filthy that it was  later burnt to the ground when all the wounded had been evacuated. Later. We spent some days in the vicinity of Junction Station having now reached the edge of the hills where it is very difficult for cavalry to work. During this time the Turks were being gradually driven back to Jerusalem by other troops. After this we went back for a spell to a village some little distance back where we had a very pleasant few days. I took advantage of this to go back in a motor Ambulance to our base, where I arranged for the collection of drugs, stretchers dressings new Ambulance wagons to repair damaged ones for our various Ambulances. It took the main part of three days to do this. I got a few canteen stores &  some articles from our dump for Col Dixon & myself & a stationary box containing our office gear. It was rather pleasant being in the semi civilization of standing camps again after our rather rough life in the open line during the previous month. A day or two after my return we pushed out again & are now very unsettled once more, never knowing where or when we may move. There has been a commendable amount of Two days later I forgot what I intended to say in that last sentence - I was interrupted & am trying again. We have moved some miles again since I last wrote Our last camp was in the vicinity of one of the prettiest little villages I have ever seen. It is a Jewish settlement & has well laid out streets with trees in them, red tiled villas frequently surrounded by hedges & the whole countryside around is beautiful, for the most part      covered with orchards or vineyards. Duty one way caused me to ride between this village & a larger town some 5 miles away which I must not mention & the way led through lanes bordered on either side by thick hedges of what seemed to me wattle just coming into flower, but it is said to be mimosa,  and on either side were huge orchards & vineyards which were just beginning to show their young green leaves, & beyond were the spires of the town I was going to & which was surrounded by trees of a darker color to those around me & beyond & not far away the  hills of Judaea. In this city was born Joseph of Aramithea  so you may be able to place it. A hospital there occupied the same building which Napoleon used for his sick & which was originally build by Richard Coeur de Lion on his crusades. So we are really in the Holy Land with a vengeance now my dear & it is a beautiful country indeed &  the climate at present is all that can be desired save when it rains - when it is abominable. It rained heavily on two successive night & blew in addition with the result that the first night our bivouac blew over & we couldn't fix it up again & the second night a puddle of water formed in the middle of where we were to sleep. However, these are some of the small discomforts of campaigning & I had to laugh one of these evenings when we were all wrapped up in our greatcoats & trying to devour our meal as quickly as we could in the standing posture as it was too wet to  sit down, & all bolting our food so as to get back quickly to the small shelter we had. Still our sleeping bags are fine things & I have slept dry in spite of all the above disadvantages so far. I think this completes my account of our wanderings up to date & as I cannot hope to send a separate account to all members of the family I hope you will send it round & this to the lot Your Xmas billy has arrived safe & sound, my dear at a most propitious time & is being eaten by degrees in the Promised Land with great appreciation. I put some of the cake on the table & all members of the mess testified to it's excellence & sent a hearty vote of thanks, particularly Capt Jackson a middle aged scotchman & a sollictor in private life who is very fond of a piece of good poundcake. Will close now with love to all & a little extra bit for mother from Her loving son Wilf. Finished on 2.12.1917 Merry Xmas my dear. Keep this small account specially for me, my dear. 