Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 24 October 1918
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Jordan
Nationality: Australian

Text:


24.10.1918.
My dear mother, I am trying now to conclude my account of our recent adventures from the day we left the Jordan, North of Tiberias. At this period I regret to say I developed that beastly influenza which has spread over the world recently & felt rotten for 3 days, couldn't eat anything at all & felt at enmity with all the world. However I managed to drag along - we were travelling rapidly then & I used to lie down in a motor Ambulance & come along that way. How I  longed for a comfy bed though & rest instead of continually pushing on. It is the first time for about three years that I have been at all off colour & I can't say I liked it; but practically everyone has contracted it sooner or later. We pushed on through Kuneitra & along a fairly level plateau. The only really bad hill was one coming up from the valley of the Jordan above the lake of Tiberias & that was a fair corker. After that we travelled over the plateau which is fairly well cultivated but largely inhabited by Circassians who if they had the chance would be glad to shoot one for his clothes. We passed Mount Hermon which rises some 3000 or 4000 feet above the level of the tableland, as a huge gaunt rugged hill, scarred by the watercourses which centuries of torrential winter rains have washed out of the mountain side. The last day before we reached Damascus the troops travelled 40 miles, fighting most of the way. Our Division led & the boys did splendidly. There were several immensely strong positions, which if well held would have been very difficult to take, but our fellows dashed in with such vigour that on each occasion the resistance was brushed aside. On one occasion about 1000 of the enemy occupied a strong position on some rocky hills & the officer in charge of the advanced force turned all his artillery & machine guns on to them & while their attention was thus engaged he sent round a regiment on their flank with orders to charge from there. When the enemy suddenly discovered our fellows from this direction bearing down on them with swords glittering in the sun, they decided that discretion was better than valour & surrendered en masse without causing us a single casualty. There were several fights of this kind before we reached Damascus & quite a number of prisoners were captured. I heard afterwards from prisoners also that the local Arabs attacked the Germans & Turks & murdered many of them, & one German told me that he preferred to surrender to us than be killed by the Arabs. After our long long trek we reached the top of a small hill & Damascus lay before us. On the left were the mountain ranges ascending to Lebanon & to the East of this was a flat plain extending for many miles & one mass of verdure. The country we had passed through was fertile during the rainy months but this was like an oasis in the desert, it was so amazingly fertile. Trees & gardens covered the whole of the oasis & in the centre could be distinguished the spires & domes of the city. Seven rivers descend here from the hills, for provide a large perennial supply of water which irrigates the the whole of the oasis. However we were not allowed to admire the view too long as we advanced & a couple of Brigades were sent round to cut off the retreat of the Turks in the town to the North & West - & the road to Beirut & Homs. The road & railway to Beirut run together & soon after leaving the city enter a narrow gorge in the mountains. Our fellows instead of entering the city cut across the hills to this road about 3 miles from the town & then intercepted a huge column of Turks trying to escape. The machine gunners go climbed on to a knoll commanding the road & as the Turkish force men guns transport tried to get away they simply swept that road & in a few minutes it was a shambles & when I saw it a little later it was the most horrible spectacle I have ever seen. Dead animals & men, wagons, guns, trains - everything mixed up & absolutely blocking the road. One train came out armed to the teeth with machine guns & troops but met with such a warm reception that it was forced to return. A train was captured with a large amount of money aboard too. One other road of escape there was - to Homs but this was speedily blocked & the Turks escaping along it chased & captured. Then some of our troops cleaned up the town & all the prisoners were collected & sent to a depot some miles out. I thought the procession would never end - some 15000 or 16000 of them marched past us & a sorry crowd they were. The constituted the remnant of the 4th Turkish army who had been stationed at Amman & Es Salt & had given us such a warm time in those Es Salt scraps & in order to escape after the line had been broken & we had reached Afuleh they had retreated along the Hedjaz railway line from Amman through Desar & to Damascus. They had marched 80 to 100 miles only to be caught at Damascus by our rapid entrance. The Sherif of Meccas folk had been working on the Eastern flank & joined us for the first time at Damascus. My first glimpse of them took place on the first day after the place was taken. Col Fowler & I went in to the city to look for hospital accommodation. It was growing dark & the sound of brisk firing filled the air. We crossed some ruined bridges in our motor car, at the risk of our necks, & entered the streets of the city. The streets were full of people mainly Arabs swarming everywhere in great excitement. Very many of them were armed & often playfully discharged their weapons into the air. Our appearance was frequently greeted with loud hand clappings, but we were rather disconcerted after travelling some way through dark narrow streets in search of the French hospital to find that we had almost lost our way in a strange city, that none of our own men were about & the streets full of a queer mixture of Arabs. Firing was going on intermittently & every now & again we were startled by reports close at hand. So we decided to give up the ghost search & return & we felt very relieved when we found our way safely back to camp. Next morning I went in again & went round the various hospitals. Things were a little quieter but numerous bands of Arabs had come in for the  sake of plunder & pretended they belonged to the  forces of the Sherif of Mecca. Their excesses became too great & the Sherifs people who had taken over the town set to work to restore order.  I noticed some argument taking place on the corner of the main street as I was proceeding round to the German hospital but didn't take much notice of it until just after I had entered the hospital the sound of machine gun firing attracted my attention & along the street I had just come up quite a number of these looting Arabs were falling under the fire of machine guns. The lesson thus given had a good effect & looting soon ceased though at night firing continued for a  few nights. I had my hands full for the next few days trying to ration five hospitals full of sick Turks & our own commencing to come in too. One Turkish barracks had been recently converted by them into a hospital & had some 600 or 700 Turks in it, & all their attendants had  absconded. I have never see such a sight as it presented - you can imagine yourself what condition a place would be in when  700 sick had been left by themselves for almost two days. It took a lot of work to get it cleaned up & orderlies & attendants to look after the people. I handed it over after a day or two to another fellow, as it was rather much to get round & look after the five hospitals My impressions of Damacus are most disappointing, on close acquaintance it proved to be a filthy town with wretched sanitary arrangements, streets fallen into disrepair, great holes in the main streets 7 or 8  feet deep & water beneath. The buildings  are for the most part very poor, but there are a few decent ones in the main square. There is water everywhere all the main streets are built over running  streams. The bazaars also are disappointing - interesting of course, but very dingey. The first bazaar is lined with fruit & vegetables of all kinds & in immense quantity - it is a  narrow street with little open shops on either side & half the wares in baskets on the  roadway. The other bazaars were covered by a huge archway of zinc extending for some 200 or 300 yards & forming a kind of  arcade, but the Turks pulled the zinc  roof off for military use & now there is only the skeleton of it left. Everything  is expensive, particularly as the Arabs don't consider our pound notes to be equal to more than half their value as they have been accustomed to the Turks’ notes. Consequently  one pays more than their value for articles.  I  had hoped to get a good carpet & send it home, but found them charging twice their value & after spending an afternoon chasing round trying to find one suitable I gave up the attempt particularly as it is so difficult to get it home from here. My hand tires my dear so I really must conclude with very best of love & good wishes. from Your loving son Wilf.


The explosions in Damascus the night before we entered it were a sight which beggars description. They burnt their petrol & blew up the ammunition dumps & huge fires were lighting up the whole sky & every few moments - bang! would go a dump & up would shoot a huge flame followed by a cloud of black smoke It was magnificent but terrible to watch.

I think it would be a good thing to invest a little more cash on war loan - the interest is good.

