Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 7 June 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


7. 6. 1916  P.S  A mail just to hand Two letters from you about Tathra.   My dear mother,  I am rather late this week in writing as  I have been to Cairo again for a trip & had my time so fully  occupied that I could not write while there. Wesley & I after  a great deal of conspiracy succeeded in obtaining leave together.  We worked all the points we knew & eventually managed it after  spending a whole afternoon interviewing people. We left early one  morning & after riding in to a certain spot went on a hospital boat  to Ismailia where we had lunch at the hospital. Wesley's lady love  was there (not at lunch but at the hospital) & he decided to spend  the afternoon with her & come up by the evening train, but I  thinking that there would be little amusement there for me went  to Cairo by a train soon after lunch arriving in time for  dinner at night. Four nurses were on the train from the  hospital setting out for transport work & of course it fell  to my lot to look after them which did not prove  altogether an uncongenial occupation, Egyptian trains  have dining cars aboard & cool drinks can be obtained  at any time & prove very acceptable during the hot weather.   I also met a fellow named Waine who went through  the Varsity with me & has been in England ever since &   enlisted last year in the R.A.M.C. since when he  has been to France & Mesopotamia & was  returning  from the latter place after spending five months there.  On alighting from the train in Cairo I met another  fellow - Stafford also from our Varsity year, & who  recently married the best looking girl in that year  commonly called the dream. After seeing the ladies  to their conveyance with their stacks of luggage  I was free to go to the Continental where I  arranged rooms for Wesley & myself & proceeded  to dine at the usual Cairo hour of 7.45 pm.  Afterwards I went round to the Davies Bryans  & spent the evening there. They were cordial & kind  as usual & are still in a quandary as regards  going to England. Wesley arrived at the hotel about  midnight after I had gone to bed & we indulged  in two lemon squashes though I hardly realized  I was having mine as I had been asleep. We  slept in next day had a late breakfast with  another fellow we knew who came over in the  boat with us from Australia & then sallied forth  to Choubra Hospital where there were a couple  of Prince Alfred girls.  We had morning tea there  with Sister Burkitt who is engaged to another  medico named Gibson also one of our friends at  present in France. We also saw Sister Clouston  there daughter of the late minister of Glebe Church. They were all very jolly & seemed glad to see us. After a very fine lunch at the  Continental we snoozed & smoked for an hour & then  went out to the 27th British Hospital to see Harold  Thomas whom I have mentioned before as being  from Manly. We had a squash there as it was  an exceedingly hot day & took Harold away with  us in the garry we had hired to an Australian   Hospital not far distant to see Jim Wiley also  from our year. We had intended taking the two  of them to dinner at the Continental but they  prevailed on us to stay to dinner at the hospital  where there were several more people we knew, to  wit - Major Gregor who has a practice in Sydney &  "Whisky" Dawson for once of Prince Alfred an  awfully good chap despite his nickname. There  were several more officers present including a padré  & we had an extremely pleasant evening discussing  old Prince Alfred days. Next day Charley's girl came  up from Ismailia by the eleven train so after doing  some shopping I went out to Heliopolis to see cousin  John Evans who by the way is now a Colonel & is at  present stationed in Cairo. I f had learnt his  whereabouts from the Bryans & found the  Ambulance easily enough but much to my  disgust I found that he was out. However  they said that he would probably lunch at the Continental but I failed to find him there either.  Wesley the lady & myself had lunch together  & then I went along to the Mooski (bazaar)  to look at some brasswork while the other  pair betook themselves on the Nile for a blow.  I gave them a wide berth as I think they  are getting rather fond of each other & I thought  they might want to fix matters up definitely  but apparently after talking it over they  decided that a definite engagement in war  time would be unwise as it undoubtedly would.  I had a good look at the brass ware & decided  to wait till next day to see what money I  had left after paying hotel bills. The lady  went back by the six p.m. train & Wesley &  I met Harold Thomas by appointment & went  out to dinner with him at the Ghezirah Sporting  club. The dinner is served there in the open  under the trees, all the tables being small &  each bearing an electric light softened by  a Japanese shade the effect combined  with the white table cloths, shining silver,  table flowers onkf  & surrounding trees being  very pretty. The dinner was a splendid one  also as it is one of the best clubs in  Cairo & we did full justice to it finishing 
it up with a spiffing Henry Clay cigar We  then sat out & talked for a while & suddenly  recollected that we had arranged to meet the  dentist from our Ambulance who was in Cairo &  alone & go with him to the Kursaal - the local  variety show. So we bustled away & found him  in is room half naked trying to get cool &  we decided to forego the theatre & take a  drive through the gardens in the cool instead,  which proved much more enjoyeable  & we  ended the evening at the Continental with an  iced drink. On the next & last morning we went  out to the 3rd Australian General Hospital & saw  some fellows who were sick there, then Clive  Blackwell (you remember the friends of Job) who  is a Sergeant in the dental corps & ended up  by visiting some more Prince Alfred nurses in the  nurses' home. We returned to the Continental for  lunch & were joined by Jim Wiley to diser who  had arranged to meet us at lunch & in the  afternoon after settling our bills went to the  Mooski. Wesley bought some things & then  I after a lot of looking fell in love with a  couple of exquisite vases & couldn't pass  them as I thought they would just suit  you & a tray for Mab.  The only trouble 
was the cash but I was so enamoured with  them that I borrowed £2.10 from Jim Wiley  to supplement my available money & bought  them I directed them to be packed & sent  on to you but wish I had had the time to  take them to Cooks as they might easily substitute  poorer vases or tray or not send them at all. Please  let me know as soon as the arrive. The vases  are large somewhat shaped thus & of  very fine workmanship of  the same variety as the single one I sent  previously only better. If the work in those  you receive is only scratched in work & not  inlaid as the previous one was please tell  me as I have the man's address. Tho We  had to rush away get tea & train  homewards - I hadn’t a bean left,  though the holiday was by no means expensive,  The brassware cost more than the other X's - I  do hope you receive it safely & like it  Arrived home 2 a.m very tired after one  of the most excellent holidays I have had  A very full 3 or 4 days trip. Now in the desert  again killing time. Much love to all  from  Your loving son, Wilf.