Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 16 December 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


I think  I will send a  few more photos taken  by Cave,  panoramas  again  Cairo & the Barage Please fix if you can as previously arranged*]

16.12.1916  My dear mother, We have had a mail this week & I had a letter from Mab & Mrs Job, but yours is not yet to hand, I expect it will be here today or tomorrow as you probably have registered it & registered letters always come a day or two later than the  others. We have just had a little excitement as a German aeroplane has been over having a peep at us & our guns have been doing their best to bring him down. Firstly the machine guns opened with a most abominable clatter & then the proper anti- air craft guns sent their shells after him & the air in the vicinity was full of white & black puffs of shrapnel but he just sailed peacefully onwards
& I think dropped a few bombs at a camp some few miles away. They are very good in their respect for the Red Cross flag & never  drop bombs intentionally on Ambulances, we have large red crosses placed on the ground to show our position. One day this week he paid us another visit & bombed one of the regiments but only succeeded in killing a horse, fortunately the bomb that did this did not explode or it would certainly have done more damage. The others dropped wide. I have not been about very much since last week, there are very few places to go & the country is so dreadfully heavy to ride over that it spoils the pleasure. I went over to the  9th Regt yesterday afternoon & just had a chat, tomorrow I will go over for dinner. We are making preparations for Xmas & have sent a man right away to Port Said to try & get a real live turkey. We are spending 5/- per man out of the funds of the Corps or Canteen funds stuff & then the Red Cross Society have sent stuff along & the Comforts Society are also sending some. Then the Government are issuing puddings & the billies from Australia are to be distributed to each man in a day or two, so it seems to me  that as far as eating matters go the men should fare very well. But what if we should have to move suddenly just when we get all the stuff - I sincerely hope not or some would surely be ill after trying to put it all away. We go to bed very early nowadays as there is little to do in the evenings & lights should be out at 8 pm. though 
I have rigged up a shade to my lamp which makes it unnecessary. I am trying to read Tolstoi's "War & Peace" but it rather bores me as there are three volumes & the detail is a wee bit tedious. What an awful state Australia has been in with strikes & incendiaries, refusing conscription & so on. I don't believe half the people really realize that there is a war on & that our ou utmost effort is needed. Some of them need to have a few bombs dropped near their peaceful towns or to witness the treatment of  Belgium Servia or Roumania to  really wake them up. I must close for the present & finish later. Sunday evening I went out for a little ride this afternoon 
for exercise & a small walk afterwards then had dinner, after that went to the office for a while fixed up a few returns, had a smoke of the Lucy Hinton you sent me & am finishing off the pipe as I write. I suppose you are off to Church now or would be if our times were the  same. We had church parade today, & I it fell to my lot to take our little lot along. It is quite a novel experience after being in a regiment where one had so few men to look after that it was never necessary to march them along, to proceed with a party in the proper manner & marshall them to their allotted space on parade We always form three sides of a hollow square with the padré (ministers are always padrés in the army) at the open 
end. When the parade is formed the General comes along with much clattering of spurs & galloping of horses, & the parade is handed over to him by the senior officer on parade, & he in turn hands it over to the padré who then appears. The men all stand until the sermon comes along when the order is given to sit & afterwards we march past the general with a flourish giving  the order "Eyes right" to our men & each  officer saluting. The weather now is still glorious, in the day I only need to wear a dull pair of riding breeches & flannel shirt & in the evenings as now put on a cardigan jacket, though towards early morning it is quite cold. I have heard from Wesley several times lately, he is still at Salisbury Plains, & finds it 
rather dull as leave is scarce though he managed to go to London for two days recently. Mrs Job told me in her letter this time that some good people in Australia had got me engaged to a nurse over here - first I knew of it, she was writing to you & was afraid to mention it for fear that you might  be upset. I can assure you, my dear, that you have no cause at all to worry on that score for nothing is further from my mind & goodness knows what opportunity one gets for doing these things when he has leave once in five months or so & then finds all the people he knows in Cairo vanished. I certainly wouldn't mind flirting furiously for a few days if I had the opportunity 
but I certainly don't want to get tied up yet although years come on apace, as I would like very much to do a little more post graduate study before that if only this beastly war would end. It is a wretched thing isn't it mother my dear keeping us separated like this & putting one back so long in his work. However cheer up Germany looks as if she has just about had enough & so have we if the truth were told. So goodnight my dear don't be downhearted, with love to all & a real thumping kiss to mother from Her loving son Wilf 