Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 20 August 1917
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


20.8.17
My dear mother, Since last I wrote your two welcome letters arrived after being sent to various addresses here in search of me. I hope you have received my letters saying that Jack had arrived safely before this. I fear that a fortnights mail was lost at sea some few weeks ago so that you would be a month without letters. I have not heard from Jack this week but expect to see him out here shortly. We have moved off the beach now & are in one of our former camp sites, not such a bad place though rather dusty, but we miss the water very much. We only moved across yesterday & I had a busy day riding over all the Camps to see that they had been left in a clean & sanitary condition for the troops who were coming in for their spell on the beach. I so arranged my day however that I arrived at the Rest Camp which is at present being managed by portion of the 3rd Ambulance just in time to have a swim & then lunch, or rather we had some morning tea a swim & then lunch. Needless to say we enjoyed that & afterwards had a smoke afternoon tea & rode after out here in the wake of our division. By that time things were settled down & our bivouacs erected, as I had sent on my batman. Today I have been riding round  the Division to see how the people who formerly occupied this area left it (& it wasn't very good either) & then returned here after lunching at the 4th Ambulance. The day before we left the beach I rode down to see Worthington who has a Veterinary Section at present on the beach - he was once in the 9th Regt at same time as myself & afterwards lived at the Ambulance for a while. Murray Jones who is A.D.V.S. here (Assistant Director of Veterinary Services) was going down & asked me to accompany him, so we had a pleasant ride & chat. Murray Jones is a very good fellow indeed & the only other Australian in the mess here, so that we fall into each other's company a good deal. I think I told you that the "baccy" arrived safely thanks very much, if you could get Vice Regal next time I would be very glad of it for a change but please deduct the money from my cheque. I have not received the parcel yet from the Candelo association but expect it will be along in a day or two. I suppose you are feeling quite a happy woman now having your only two single sons at the war - I'm sure you wouldn't be happy otherwise - but that is quite a sufficient number & we certainly don't want to see the married ones coming & if Ern talks any more about it, give him a straight talking to & tell him to stay & look after his wife & kiddies as he ought to do. In this war one meets people from all the ends of the earth,  - while writing this letter I was interrupted by a young signalling officer who wanted some information, & in conversation afterwards he told me that he was from Canada & began telling me lots of things about it, & yet he had a brother & other relations living in Mudgee. I heard the other day that young Bob Aspinall had been killed in France - poor kiddy - he was at school & Varsity with me & graduated later, then came over here & I saw him in Egypt before he went to France. We are nearing the end of summer now & I must say that we have been very fortunate this year as the summer was not nearly as hot as formerly & we were so fortunate in being able to spend some time on the beach. There doesn't seem much indication of the war ending this year, my dear, does there? But cheer up, it won’t last for ever & when it does finish it will probably do so very rapidly & we will be together again before we know it. No more news, my dear, I hope you are keeping in good health & keeping indigestion right away, best of love to all & a double share for mother from Her loving son Wilf. I'm enclosing list of "mentioned in dispatches" with my name in it. in case you have not seen it.
All in order - dates following