Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 13 September 1915
Location: Zeitoun Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


No 1 Aust Gen Hospital September 13th 1915. My dear mother, I received another letter this week from you I am glad to say, quite in regular order. I believe that the reason why I did not receive the earlier letters was that either they were addressed to the different ports or else that they were sent from here to another Captain Evans who had been here & gone elsewhere for I went one day to our local post office in the hospital & they had there the address of Capt Evans  in the book as 7th Light Horse or something & I think my letters may have been sent there for since I altered it I have received them quite well. I have been leading a quiet life since I last wrote you, but one very good thing has happened - I have stimulated some of the fellows to play tennis & we have joined the Heliopolis Sporting club which has two very nice courts at the back of the place here so that we are able to go down easily & have a bang there.
Wesley & I went for a trip this week to see Major Gray (Mrs Jacomb's ) son-in-law) who is at Mena House near the pyramids & then went on to see the Pyramids themselves. Mena House is about six or seven miles from Cairo & an electric tram runs there through very nice country - fields of green corn which is I think of greater height than most of our Australian maize even at Jella Jella. It all depends on irrigation & is here very wide in area so that it makes a delightful trip. We had afternoon tea at Mena House which was formerly a very fine hotel & was one of the first hospitals we had in Egypt. It is situated at the foot of the pyramids & is now taking the slighter cases & Major Gray is in charge. After afternoon tea we took possession of a guide & a couple of camels & made our way to the Pyramids. I had heard so much of them & seen them so often at a distance & in pictures that I did not take a very great interest in them, though it is marvellous to think of how the Egyptians in bygone ages transported the huge blocks of stone there & more than that hoisted them in the air to a height of 400 feet as the largest pyramid is that height.
It is possible to climb up to the top but we preferred to look at others doing it, nor did we go inside to what is called the King's Chamber where the mummies were kept. It is necessary to crawl on one's hands & knees through very dirty passages & we did not feel in the humor to do that although I believe it is well worth seeing. After seeing the pyramids we went on to the Sphinx which as you know is the huge carved face of a man with the body of a lion. It is cut of out of solid granite & is a tremendous thing whose exact dimensions I forget - it seems strange to look on these things which I have seen in pictures from my earliest days. After that we went into the temple of the Sphinx  which was excavated some years ago as it together with the Sphinx itself had been buried for many centuries by the drifting sand. One goes down a flight of steps & then comes to the ruins of this fine old temple & it proved very interesting, it was built of tremendous granite blocks beautifully cut & polished & larger than any stone blocks I have ever seen. There are rows of granite pillars made from one piece of stone alone, & fully
15-20 feet high & each of the four sides about 3 feet across. Imagine the weight of one of those huge blocks & the tremendous power needed to hoist them up into position even after transporting them over the sand. There are also in the temple tombs where mummies were placed, dark passages arranged in tiers now haunted by niggers who want to extract the universal "backshish" (money) by lighting them up with a candle. I took the photos of Wesley & myself on the camels & we rode back at quite a good pace. Camels are frightfully rough things to ride especially when they trot, but if one rises to the trot just as on horseback it is not so bad. When they lie down in order to allow you to alight it causes the weirdest   sensation, first of all they bend their   front legs & one frantically clutches the saddle to prevent himself being precipated forwards & leans well back, then down go their hind quarters & one clutches again & leans forward, & finally the rest of their fore limbs are folded up & one is safe on the ground. I am very interested in the medical work over here - I don't know if I told you that we have a good number
of typhoid fever cases in spite of the inoculation against it but not nearly so numerous as they would have been without it, & it's course is greatly modified by it, an being rendered much milder. This however renders the diagnosis much more difficult as there are numerous other diseases over here which are not very well defined & we don't know quite what they are - principally mild forms of fever which last for a few days & then the patient is quite well but, in many cases impossible to tell from the mild typhoid cases. We also have some malaria & odd cases of pneumonia. I am kept moderately busy with my work but not too much so by any means. I am trying to finish this letter amid odd snatches of conversation near me & cannot well collect my thoughts & as the mail closes almost immediately I will finish up so that I may   not miss it. I received a letter from Harry & Bruce this week which I was very glad to have, is but am very sorry to hear of Linda's further illness & hope that the attacks will not recur. Please thank all the family for writing cannot promise that I will write all round as practically all I have to tell is in these letters as arranged. Best love to all & a double share to mum from her loving son,   Wilf