Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 9 October 1915
Regiment: 3rd Light Horse Field Ambulance
Location: Anzac Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


3rd L. H. F. Ambulance  Anzak  9. 10. 1915  My dear mother,  I last wrote you from  the S.S Siang Choon en route to Lemnos.  & hope you received the letter safely. We  were all surprised on arriving at Lemnos  Island to see what a fine place its  principal & only harbour - Mudros  is. It has a narrow entrance & widens  to about 2 miles in width & bends  almost at right angles so that it  is exceedingly well sheltered.  As you may imagine it is at  present a very busy place, but  there still remain on shore one or  two native villages with houses  closely crowded together. The island  is I believe, about 20 miles long  by 10 miles wide & is for the most   part low lying but has a little
high land in the centre. Major  McLean who was in charge of  us had to report to headquarters  but we received no word orders  until the following day so we  took advantage of the opportunity  to go ashore. The difficulty was  to procure a boat, but the 3rd   ship's officer obtained permission  from the captain to take us off  in one of the boats which carried  a sail & away we went. It was  a glorious day, just like one of  our own fine spring or autumn days  with a gentle breeze blowing.  Unfortunately the breeze was in the  wrong direction & we had to  tack a good deal before we  finally reached the desired point.  I think I told you before  that the 3rd Aust General Hospital  was situated at Lemnos & we
were bent on visiting there as we  know a good many of the men in it.  We landed & after a little difficulty found  the desired spot & had quite a pleasant  time renewing old acquaintances. We  met several Prince Alfred nurses, & Hardie  who was at the varsity with us & a little further  on met Kirkwood Murphy & some others  whom we thought were at Gallipoli but  were in a stationary hospital. It was  very strange to see Colonel Sydney  Jamieson & Sir Alexander McCormick  trotting about in military attire. The  latter looked a little thinner than usual  but still very sturdy & robust & the  former was the picture of health &  unbounded optimism. most of which  was however very ill of us. We had  afternoon tea & after exploring the  place returned to our boat &  thence to the ship but had to  row back as the wind had  dropped. Next day we  received orders to embark for  Anzac & did so. We spent the  next night in and the clearing  hospital on the beach at Anzac  as it is very difficult to find accommodation  elsewhere just on arrival & one of the  orderlies managed to procure us some  breakfast next morning, when I had my  first taste of the famous bully beef &  found it by no means bad. We  reported to Colonel Howse that morning  as he is in charge of medical arrangements  here & five were sent to one division  & six to the other. I formed one of  the six & we reported to the headquarters   of the New Zealand & Australian  Division & was eventually drafted  with Parry & Wesley onto the 3rd  Light Horse Field Ambulance.  We were very fortunate to be able to  keep together. We are very comfortably  situated for active service. I have   quite a decent little dug out to myself.  The camp is situated on the slope of steep hill & a shelter is constructed by  digging out a space from it about  8 feet long by five feet wide so as to   have the floor level & then there is a  perpendicular wall at the back & two  sloping walls at the sides as the diagram  shows (very imperfectly)   Then the side walls are  built up level by means of  sandbags & a roof of oilsheet put over it  The front also has sandbags except where  a space is left for the floor. We are very well  protected from shells by the hills about &  have a fine view of the sea with the hospital  ships, trawlers & a warship or two on it.  Can also see Suvla Bay & the British  positions there. Several ambulances  can easily be seen & I suppose that  that cousin of ours in the 3rd Welsh  Ambulance is there somewhere but I fear  that I won't & have much chance of seeing  him. It is very interesting to watch the guns of opposing sides bombarding  each other We can see the flashes   of some British batteries then there  is the report, the whiz of the shell  & it lands somewhere on the ridges  inland. This generally continues for a little  while & some time later the Turkish batteries  will commence & we can watch the  explosion of their shells & guess how close  they land to the British guns, as we whe see  the smoke of the explosion & the ground  torn up Rifle fire occurs chiefly at  night with occasional splutters  from machine guns, & we hear the  whiz of the bullets as they pass  far above us out to sea. Sometimes  there is quite an outburst when one  side fancies the other is going to make  an attack. Then some of the warships  may chime in & they make a most  frightful din particularly at night  when they fire most - I'm afraid  that your slumber would be as much  disturbed by them as by the dogs at home 
We have little to do at present but  are feeling well & contented, food is  good & we are treated very well. It  rained a little last night & I was  very glad to note that my roof  was watertight In addition of  course I have my sleeping bag  & also managed to bring across  rubber boots & macintosh for wet  weather & having quite a supply of warm  things. We can see from here a small  island called Imbros about twenty  miles away & thus much closer than  Lemnos which is fifty miles away, & on  the former a canteen has been started  from which we will be able to purchase  various little necessities which are  brought over by one of the men from  each unit. I have to tell you of  generalities mainly & not of any  matter which might possibly be of  use to the enemy so cut out a good deal of what I would   otherwise mention. I hope, my dear,  that you are not too distressed  in mind about me for my chances  of injury are comparatively small  compared with those of the men who hold  the trenches. We are very glad to xxxx  xxxxxx I have taken some snaps  of the camp here & also of Lemnos  will send them to Cairo to be developed  & try & have them sent on. My  address here is  3rd Light Horse Field Ambulance  3rd Light Horse Brigade  Anzac  I sincerely hope that all the family  are well & that you yourself  are in good fettle, with my best  love to all & an extra share for   mother from  Her loving son,  Wilf.

(W Evans. Capt . A. A. M. C.)
 