Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 12 November 1916
Regiment: 9th Light Horse 
Location: Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


12.11.1916
My dear mother, Your two most welcome letters of Sept 21st & 28th arrived safely this week, rather later than the rest of the mail as our New South Wales letters are often a day or two behind the Victorian ones. Your letters have arrived very regularly now for some time past & I am sorry that you were rather worrying about them going astray as that occurred only several months ago, & then they turned up in the end.  You were asking how long I was going to stay here, my dear, well really it is very hard to answer, as one is very much under the Control of the Military authorities & it very largely rests with them, otherwise I don't think I would be here very long, although I suppose one would hardly care to turn his back on things at the present stage. I long just as much as you to return & see you again but we must just be patient & I think we should also be thankful when we look round & see so many homes mourning for those who have gone. One of my great troubles is the thought of wasting these years here when there is so much to be done & one's youth is the time to work & gain 
experience whereas in the military business in the field we chiefly occupy ourselves in "killing time" day following day in monotonous succession. However some day in the future if the war does not end soon I may have the chance of a base job (it isn't very likely though I fear) & then we might arrange to meet. However let us hope that the war is not going to stretch out much farther, the summer has passed very favorably for us though Roumania has had a bad time & next summer should surely see the end. As regards going to France I don't think it's at all probable that we will be sent there, my dear, & if we are - well "Kismet" we have to go. But our sphere  of activity lies fairly definitely here my dear so don't worry. I was awfully sorry that you bothered to make another cake just because one was slightly scorched -  we aren't a bit particular out here.  I have just been eating a piece of a beauty which was sent from 
England to Cave one of the officers here & we have had part of it for afternoon tea We are living quite well, have our own cook who was once a chef in one of the best places in Melbourne & also have an orderly to wait on us. Our mess is in a large E.P. tent (I don't suppose you know what kind they are, but they are about 6 yards wide by 12 yds in length & have a kind of gable roof.  We have a table & stools & a partition behind which the serving is done. We also have some kind of wild desert blossom on the table so are quite swanky. Several others of my friends have been killed in France besides Graham - W Jekyll & Broughton were two fine fellows both in my year at the Varsity & then several others in the years above & below. Your description of dusting photos made me quite sad, my dear, to think of you in the same old spot longing to see me - what a pity we couldn't pay each other wireless visits across the sea - cheer up it won't be so very long now. Several of our officers have been away on leave this week so we have had a little more to do than usual & one or two of the regimental 
medical officers are also away ill, one from my old regiment has a bad ear, & another bad eyes & teeth. We expect them back again before long however & will be glad as it is rather a bother going over to the regiments to fix up their work & if we move out again one of us would have to go along with the regiment, though while we are close together here its not necessary. Football is in full swing at present, matches have been arranged between the different regiments & it is quite pleasant to go & look at the matches although they play a different game to our usual one in N.S. Wales. They develop quite a keen interest in the game too & practice for it so it helps them to enjoy their spell here.  Then there is a Y.M.C.A. tent here where there are frequently entertainments at night & it is they also who have arranged the matches so they do quite 
a good work.  I suppose this letter will reach you just between Xmas & New Year. I hope you will have had a pleasant time at Eden or some other good spot & that the New Year will be an auspicious one for us all. I hope you received the last letter safely with all the photos in it as you would find them interesting. Can't think of any more news my dear so will close with best of love from Your loving son Wilf.
 I'm getting quite a corporation, it looks as if I will present the good old picture of a family doc when I return, nice & portly & bald. 
 