Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 17 June 1915
Location: S S Karoola
Nationality: Australian

Text:


 S.S. Karoola  June 17th, 1915. 
 My dear mother, (also father, brothers & Suey)  We are to have a chance to post  letters tonight or tomorrow morning - how, I cannot  tell you as officers are put on their honor not to  give any information at all & the men's letters are  censored I only hope that my last letter which   was written before we received these orders was  not censored before it reached you. I will just  write to you this time & you can send the letter  on as time will not permit me to write to all  the family. We are very comfortable indeed & I  have not been seasick at all - it recalls to my  mind a letter of yours some years ago picturing my trip to  England when I got should get through my exams.  We are a very happy family & the Karoola  is a very fine sea boat so different to the  little south coast tubs. When we left the  heads it was as smooth as glass but became  somewhat more choppy as the night passed  with the result that the attendance at meals  today was considerably diminished I slept  well during the night & did not rise till  8 a.m this morning. Last evening we had  a lecture from the Colonel in regard to our
duties which are very light indeed. I have found  little difficulty so far in occupying time - this  morning I re arranged my kit so as to  place conveniently those things which I need.  Then Graham & I read some of the R.A.M.C.  Manual which has a very important bearing  on our work. After that we had some exercise  on the boat deck to keep us in good trim.  Someone was kind enough to present a   gramophone to the boat & after lunch we  played it for a while for the edification of  the nurses - 34 of them all told none very  attractive worse luck - then we read a   little more RAMC Manual had afternoon  tea then a smoke & a little magazine   reading. Some very good souls   [* This scratch  was put on   by Graham as   a censor mark   as we assist   in that work*] sent a  very large parcel of books & periodicals  to the boat which has greatly delighted  us as we are able to fill in some pleasant  hours with them. We are being fed  exceedingly well. - it appears that the  original boats crew of the "Karoola" has  been kept with few exceptions & we are  practically travelling first class with  the same appointments & menu. Tonight  for instance we had soup, fish entree, duck  or pork or beef, pudding, fruit coffee.
There are the usual waiters & stewards & in addition  two orderlies who clean our boots & do other odd  jobs for us. We have a Presbyterian chaplain  aboard by name Rev Paterson from Paramatta  or near there who was well known to Mr. Anderson.  I am sorry that I cannot tell you any  information as to our possible ports of call  but if you did not receive my last letter &  wish to write just send the letters to any or  all ports you can think of as possible places  of call & I may receive them or even better  perhaps if you addressed them to me on  SS Karoola & c/o of Defence Dept.  The embarkation yesterday was quite impressive,  the bands playing, soldiers marching on  board with rifles to their shoulders, the lines   of relatives & friends restrained outside certain  lines by the police where occasional odd  soldiers would rush out to them & steal a last  hurried farewell, then the marching on  board the ferries to go to the steamer where  we rested for several hours before moving  on. Then the weighing anchor, the   chorus of salutes from the surrounding  boats & from every boat we met as we  passed down the harbour, swiftly leavin'  behind all the well known landmarks of
the harbour & steaming out on our voyage.  One would believe that he was on an ordinary  passenger boat but for the khaki clad men  & the sentries posted at different points with  fixed bayonets. As The men are all contented  & happy except those who are seasick &  seem very comfortable. They are having regular  parades in order to fit the for the work which  is to come & deck games will be commenced  for their amusement during leasure hours shortly,  & I believe that boxing contests are to be  arranged. Well my dear I must close  now, concluding with my best wishes &  love to all the Evans Thomas family  & it's numerous ramifications &  hoping that all are well & cheerful  Your loving son (& brother)  Wilf.