Author: Wilfred Evans
Date: 29 August 1915
Location: Zeitoun Cairo Egypt
Nationality: Australian

Text:


Zeitoun, August 29th, 1915.
My dear mother, you may receive my last letter at the same time as this, but I hope that it managed to catch some mail or other that I did not know of. I'm afraid this will be a short letter as there is very little extra to tell you. I have been however to another of the interesting places in Egypt - the native bazaar.  It is situated not very far from the centre of the city, & the street which leads to it the El Mooski is one of the main streets of the native part of the town & one of the oldest but is exceedingly narrow. We drove along in a garry, two other fellows from here accompanying me & when we reached the bazaar walked through it. The bazaar itself consists merely of a large number of excessively narrow alleyways for the main part not wide enough to admit a vehicle & each separate alley or street
contains shops which sell only one variety of stuff for instance there is the scent bazaar which is really the only one we had a good look at, & the goldsmiths' bazaar, the silk bazaar & so on.  The shops are very small as a rule consisting usually of one room facing directly on the street.  We pulled up at the scent bazaar & enquired about the scents.  We were given three seats & the shopkeeper sent for three cups of Persian tea, (we voted for that instead of coffee) & when this came we sat round & talked, sipped the tea & smoked amber cigarettes which he also provided us with. This was all gratis & so far no mention was made of such a thing as buying or selling goods. However when the tea was finished we gradually approached the delicate subject.  The shopkeeper was a young pale flabby obese Egyptian - they are nearly all fat pale & flabby - who spoke English well. Fle He anointed the sleeves of our jackets with various varieties of perfume which smelt 
so delightful that I decided to buy some to send home. It is supposed to be very concentrated & good & is expensive about 2/- a dram. They say that it can be diluted by putting one dram in one pint of spirit & is then quite strong enough but candidly I don't believe them. I got some amber which is the native made scent & otto of roses which I am sending on but am rather doubtful if you will get them as I understand that parcels are often pilfered or lost. After buying these we were fell into the clutches of one of the Government paid native guides, who dragged us off rather against our will to see a very old house once occupied by  Mehemet Ali or some of  other of the old Sultans.  It had been a very fine old place with a courtyard in the centre, roof garden on top & various winding stairs, fine dining hall of tremendous height with beautifully emblazoned ceiling. All the fine old decorative work had gone however & for the most part 
bare walls remained. We then took a  garry back to the city & came home  late for dinner. Yesterday afternoon   Wesley & I went to the Helouan  Convalescent Hospital about 18 miles  from Cairo to have dinner with Graham  who is stationed there. It was in peace  time a fashionable hotel & is situated  on an eminence which attracts or  comes in the way of all the breezes  which blow so it is much cooler than  most other places. There is a picture show  there, three times a week for the benefit  of the patients & it happened to be  performing Il last night so we sat  out on a verandah & looked on  at it until 8 o'clock when dinner  was ready. Dinner was served in  the open as is the custom in this  country with absolutely no covering  overhead & was quite a decent meal.   Parry & Molleson who came over  with us were also there & we had  quite a pleasant time, but I felt  sleepy for what reason I don't  know. Coming back in the train  Wesley & I had a carriage to  ourselves & we lay down & went off to  sleep for part of the time. Today is  Sunday & I have had quite a  nice rest this morning. I did not  do my usual camp inspection  but lolled about & read the  English Times which has just  arrived & is only about a week  old (I always get the weekly edition  of the Times here as one gets a full  & authentic account of the war  where as the news we get in Egyptian  papers is very meagre & the papers  are almost as bad as those in Candelo  & Cooma). Then I read a little History  of the Jews & Egypt & snoozed  a little & now am writing this  just before lunch but must now  adjourn to indulge in the latter.     Next morning  I went out yesterday afternoon with  Wesley & we picked up a couple of nurses  at No TT Hospital who had recently  come across from Prince Alfred & took  them for a run to the zoo which I have previously described to you. w  It was a glorious afternoon, really one of  the coolest we have had so far & the  greenery & annuals were such a change  from our dry barren desert. We had  very nice afternoon tea & came back  to the hospital about seven o'clock  dropped the nurses there & went on  to the city, too late for church though.  So we walked round & explored the  place a little & then went into the  Ezbekiah gardens & listened to If one  of the regimental bands which was  playing there. These gardens are small  & in the centre of the city but are  very pleasant to sit in & the band was  a very fine one, which I had previously  heard playing at No 1 Hospital, as  they perform there nearly every evening  for the benefit of the patients & the  doctors also, just at the end of dinner.  This particular one belonged to the 26th  Battalion & they played the Te Deum  various national anthems & patriotic  music. You may not know that the  band attached to a regiment acts  as stretcher bearers in actual warfare.
We wandered about a little more after  this had some coffee & came home.  I have had some very pleasant news today   - am going back to the main hospital.  I became very tired of it out here as the  work was not very congenial, consisting of  sick parade in the morning, just treating  coughs & colds & such like, then camp inspection  to see that it was clean, no really good  medical work at all. The commanding officer  of the hospital has recently been changed &  Colonel Maundsley from Melbourne is at present  in charge & he is a dear old chap. He knew  Dr. Rennie fairly well in fact taught him &  I went to see him & showed him Dr. Rennies' note  & he was very nice & told me that he would  bring me in as soon as possible & I have  just seen an order for another man to relieve  me tomorrow. A mail came in today, but no  letters for me again - it's absolutely disgraceful  in my opinion - when a fellow comes away to do  his little bit, it's the best the Government  can do to supply his letters to him decently -  it's now 6 weeks since I arrived. I am  sending you some postcards of the zoo & also  of Heliopolis. Much love to all from  Your loving son,   Wilf.