
Author: William Birdwood
Date: 1 January 1916
Location: Dardanelles
Rank: Field Marshall.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:


Dardanelles Army 1 January 1916. 
 My own darling Janey Jane. Here we are at the beginning of another year. Where it will lead us?  To peace after victory? I am a little doubtful of our getting through it so soon - that we are going to win I haven’t the very least doubt, but I'm not at all sure if we will do so in the year. You will remember I always said Oct. 16, as the end, but I’m doubtful if we shan’t have to go on for yet another year. However we may do it all right earlier. I am thinking of you all so much now & wondering what you are all doing - for again our mails have all disappeared. I have nothing from you since 30th Nov, & those missing mails have never arrived. I wonder if they will ever do so.  I am again having a very anxious & physically trying time of it with all this sea journeyings.  I now have to carry out the evacuation of the Army Corps at Helles, & shall be really relieved once that is safely through.  I can hardly hope for the complete success I had with Anzac & Suvla, as the Turks are very much on the look out & will try to get at us all they can - but provided the weather is again kind to us & I have every faith in Providence - I am confident of doing it all right. Genl. Monro has now gone off to Egypt, so I am left alone here to see this through, & when it is over I fancy I will go down to Egypt myself & reorganise my Army again, to meet the big German-Turkish threatened invasion of Egypt.  The
Germans now have their aeroplanes flying over our trenches
at Helles every day & night, while they keep shelling the beaches regularly throughout the 24 hours, so one has to run the gauntlet in landing &getting away every day, while the xx embarking of all of kit, guns &animals is made a most difficult business.  Only 2 nights a go a note in German was thrown into one of our trenches. "Your bully beef is not bad, but ours is better (referring evidently to some we had left & they had got from Anzac). When are you all leaving?  We shall meet again on the Suez Canal"!! and I daresay we will. My last few days have been rather strenuous.  Two of them I have had to go down to Mudros & back - 60 miles each way - in a destroyer, & the other 2 I've been over to Helles. The first day to Mudros was nearly a bad one.  I had wanted the destroyer to be ready to take me off at 7 as had to be there early.  They never got my signal,  so I got on board & found them all practically asleep -  a thing the Navy hate!  Then to make up for lost time once they got steam up & we were off, we had to go 26 knots against a head wind.  On deck I was all right though rather wet, but foolishly allowed myself to be tempted down into the ward room for breakfast! That was too much for me, as the whole place was simply jumping over itself! You could hardly stagger across it by holding on to everything & nothing would remain on the table!  So I soon came on deck again &lay down in the chart room, when I was all right.  Then coming
back from Mudros last night we had a horrid time of it. We have to go without lights for fear of submarines, so it's never too easy to find one's way in here through the anti-torpedo nets.  As we were getting near, the wretched French battleship "Souffran" who had been out shelling some Turkish guns all day, came along & rammed & sank one of our horse ships, which made me extremely angry as she was just going over to Helles to evacuate horses we wanted to get away badly. Then she used her searchlights to pick up the crew etc, but these completely put our Captain out of his bearings, as we thought they came from a ship in harbour, & nearly went on the rocks accordingly! After wandering about for a bit, we finally had to anchor till we could find out where we were, & then started again on our wanderings to get in - rolling of course like the devil, all this time. However I'm thankful to say we eventually got in all right at 9.30 instead of 7 as we expected.  Today again it has not been too
pleasant - the worst part being the getting on board.  There were real big seas getting in & I had to go off in a very light motor boat which was just chucked about all over the place & real active gymnastics were required to get out of her onto the destroyer - however having managed that, I climbed up on the bridge & was all right, though we had the same difficulties in getting on & off at Helles & again on returning here - & even now
as I sit writing, I feel as if the whole table was rising & falling about me. I had quite an interesting day of it with the French whose troops I am relieving today, so as not to have any muddle with the two lots of troops on finally leaving, though I am keeping their Artillery, or some of it to the last, but
under our Officers  orders.  I am glad to say I have been able to arrange all this most amicably with the little French General Brulard, who has become a great friend of mine & I quite enjoy an occasional dejeuner with him, though it means eating &drinking much too much.  Today I went over to present a Military Cross & some D.P. Medals to some French men, & was quite pleased with the small speech I made "Mon Comrad, je suis très heureux de remettre de la
part de mon Roi cette medaille - et je vous fait mes felicitations, et c'est un grand honeur pour moi de serai le main d'un brave soldat Francais come vous." I was told this was quite all right & was complimented on my accent!!  Not by the French who would have done so out of politeness, but by the Interpreter!  It is about the only time I have broken out in French as in conversation.   I refuse to give myself away at all. Then after dejeuner, little Brulard made me a nice speech saying he had just received a telegram from the
President of the Republic saying he had approved of my appointment as a Grand Officer of the Legion of Honour. Rather nice, I think.  Fortunately perhaps the decoration had not arrived, so I was not kissed as I suppose would otherwise have been the case!  With the French this is looked upon as a tremendous thing & very high honour, & I fancy would be of use if we were in France at any time - & if I could talk the
language!  It corresponds to our K.P.B.  Rather a nice silver
star, with a beautiful head of "The Republic" in the centre - and a Cross xxx which one wears round the neck with a red ribbon.  I shall have so many of these things soon I'll not know what to do with them, eh? I tell ^you what I wish you would do.  At lunch Brulard broke his little amber cigarette holder. Will you buy me a nice one & send it out for me to give him.  I'm sure he would appreciate it very much.  Q  Quite a plain one of amber - On the box  case I'd like stamped "From W.R.B. to J.B" - or if it can be got on "A mon ami le  General Brulard. WR Birdwood." The Turks began shelling a bit just as we were leaving and one big shell happened by the worst of luck to plump right on to our unfortunate native transport driver who was squatting close by & literally blew him into pieces.  It looked at first as if it had just landed into a heap of old kit, & it wasn't till the bits came down, we
saw it was an unfortunate man, while a poor Tommy had his head taken clean off. Do send this letter, or such as you like of it to your old Father as I have no time to write & this will give him all my news which I know he likes hearing - also do find out if he ever got the letter I wrote him telling him I would had spoken to Fitzgerald & Storr about Percy, & that they had promised to try & get him some further employment - my letter may have been in the captured mail but I don't think it was. Has Percy yet got anything? I do hope he has. Janey, old Mrs Markes wrote me the other day to say their second son was out here as a Pte in the Devon Yeomanry - jolly good of him I think to have come as such.  I'd have looked him up, but that I only got her letter a few days after they had gone to Egypt where I may of may not see him. I have been so very sorry just to see the death of young Seton Rund in Townshend's fight near Baghdad.  I fear Aleck & Daisy will be most frightfully cut up about it, as he was the one member of the generation coming on of the family to whom they looked, & of whom they thought so much- he was like a son to them &I know they will feel this terribly - do write to them about it. Goodbye my little one. I am thinking of you all so much today & every day. I do hope you will have been spending a happy New Year's day - sleeping well at nights - & I trust that the coming year may bring you & all of us much happiness - and peace after victory. All my love to you.  Ever your very loving old, Will.
