
Author: William Birdwood
Location: Army Corps Headquarters, Anzac Cove.
Date: 18 May 1915
Rank: Lieutenant General
Nationality: Australian.

Text:
 
Sir, I have the honor to submit herewith my report of the landing of the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps on the Gallipoli  Peninsula on 25th April, and the operations up to date. I also attach a report by Major-General W. T. Bridges, C.M.G., who commanded the leading division in the landing operations. The Army Corps left Mudros Bay on the afternoon of the 24th ApriI, escorted by Rear-Admiral Thursby, fIying his flag on H.M.S. "Queen," and accompanied by His Majesty's ships "London," "Prince of Wales," "Triumph," "Majestic," and Bacchante." Before leaving Mudros Bay, 500 men of the covering force (3rd Australian Infantry Brigade under the command of Colonel Sinclair Maclagan, D.S.0.) were transferred from their transports to H.M.S. "Queen," "London," and "Prince of Wales," respectively. At 1.35 a.m. on the 25th, the three attending ships stopped, and boats were swung out. The troops were then transferred to the boats very expeditiously, and as the Flag Captain of H.M.S. "Queen" reported to me - "not quietly, but in absolute silence." At the same time, the balance of the covering force, viz- 2,500 men, were transferred from their respective transports to six destroyers, who came up from the rear, and closed the battleships at 2.35, when all proceeded under slow steam due East, H.M.S. "Queen" directing on a point about one mile North of Kaba Tepe. At 3.30., when about four miles from the coast, the battleships stopped, and orders to go ahead and 1and were given to the tows, while at 4.10 orders were given to the destroyers to follow. From the dead silence in which the approach had been made, and from the fact that no firing was heard for a considerable time after the tows had left the battleships, I had hoped that our approach might have been unobserved, especially as a point of the coast had been selected which was most difficult, and where, therefore, we might not be expected. These hopes were, however, soon dispelled, for, as the boats approached the shore, heavy firing was opened upon them which,
I regret to say, caused many casualties before the troops got ashore, some 40 men in one boat alone being killed in the boat, and the total casualties were estimated at between 300 and 400, while the opposing enemy actually on the shore were estimated at 900. As a matter of fact, we had had to approach the shore with the battleships silhouetted against the moon, and it was therefore altogether too sanguine to hope for a surprise, but we were, at all events, able to land to a certain extent unexpectedly, in that the enemy were not able to concentrate a really large force to oppose the actual landing, though I understand that two Turkish divisions were guarding this portion of the coast.
It was fully realised that wherever there were not cliffs the whole coast everywhere had been fully prepared with trenches, barbed wire etc., but I also realised that it was quite impossible for the enemy to have men in all his trenches, and that consequently anything  approaching a surprise would probably be successful. It was for this  reason that I decided to make my attack in the dark with the intention of landing on as broad a front as possible, and hurling ourselves on the enemy before he could concentrate to meet us everywhere. I had originally intended landing with my right about one mile North of Kaba Tepe, as the advances from there up to the ridges of the Sari Bari Hill, which I hoped to take, were fairly easy, while the country further to the North was so difficult and precipitous, that I feared troops would quite lose themselves in the dark, though the position there would probably be least guarded owing to the natural difficulties. I had however warned the Navy that, if we found ourselves heavily shelled on this beach after daybreak, all landings would have to take place round the point to the North. As a matter of fact, the tows did not proceed quite due East on leaving the battleships, but inclined  to the North, and landed me about a mile and a half North of where I intended our first disembarkation should take place. As subsequent events turned out, I cannot help thinking that the hand of Providence directly guided us, for it so happened that the beach, on which we landed, and which we have since held, is one of the few places where the steepness of the cliffs has made us to a great extent immune from shell fire.  Almost anywhere else we should probably have had to vacate vacate owing to heavy shell fire, which would most certainly have been poured on us.  As it is, we are subjected to heavy shell fire on this beach, but by digging in and utilising all supplies as traverses, no great casualties have incurred. The covering force having set foot on shore at once proceeded to attack with the utmost gallantry. In front of them was a hill covered with dense scrub with ravines running everywhere and in places quite precipitous. Every ridge had been thoroughly entrenched by the Turks, and it was against this position they hurled themselves with the utmost determination, and with complete success. So vigorous was their onslaught that the Turks were unable to stand before it, and they fled from ridge to rridge pursued by the Australian Infantry. The leading brigade was promptly followed by the 1st and 2nd Australian Infantry Brigades which disembarked from 6.30 a.m. to 2 p.m., and it will consequently be seen that by 2 p.m. 12,000 men had been landed.  Concurrently with the landing of these two brigades, I landed the 21st and 26th batteries of Indian Mountain Artillery. I may mention that during the whole of this period a constant shell fire was kept up on the transports, and a severe enfilading fire from Kaba Tepe on the landing. I was on the point of disembarking a field artillery brigade, when the enemy's heavy guns from the Dardanelles opened on the anchorage, and fell so close to the artillery transport, that she had to weigh anchor and move further out to sea, which considerably delayed the getting off of more guns ashore. It will be seen from General Bridges' report that he at once supported the covering force with his other two brigades, and eventually succeeded in obtaining a position with its right about a mile from Kaba Tepe, and swinging round on a front of about 4½ miles with the left over Fisherman's Hut. Owing to the shelling and confusion in landing, it was impossible for brigades, or even battalions, to disembark in the exact rotation intended, while, as troops landed, they had to be utilised where most urgently required. This consequently led to a good deal of confusion and mixing up of units, detachments from all brigades serving alongside each other. In cases, detachments under young officers in their zeal and gallantry proceeded too far afield, and in a very difficult country got cut off from the main body, and 
I fear we are likely to come across many of these who are now reported missing when we make a further advance. The disembarkation of the Australian Division was followed by that of the New Zealand and Australian Division (which consists of two brigades only) which was completed by 7 p.m., with the exception of about 1,500 of the 4th Australian Brigade which landed next day. I attach General Godley's report on the action of this Division which will show that the New Zealanders were every whit as full of dash and gallantry as their Australian brothers, and, I regret to say, suffered equally heavy casualties in proportion. Almost directly after the troops landed, we were subjected to heavy shrapnel fire, which was continued practically throughout the day, and to which we were unable to reply except by the Naval guns which did excellent work. The country in which we found ourselves was most unsuitable for the employment of any artillery but howitzers, of which my Army Corps has only four, and, until roads could be made to bring guns up, it was impossible to move them from the narrow strip of beach on which the landing has been effected. This difficulty has been continuously felt since landing, though by tremendous efforts guns have now been man-handled to what at first seemed almost inaccessible heights, and the enemy's fire has, to some extent, been kept down. By nightfall of the 25th the troops were much exhausted. They had been up practically the whole night before, and had been fighting hard all day over most difficult country, and subjected to severe shrapnel fire in the open, as they had no opportunity for digging. Further, by the breaking up of units, numbers of men who found themselves with small detachments of their regiments were under the impression that the remainder of their regiments had been cut up, which had a very depressing effect upon them. By the following morning, however, the spirits of all were quite revived, and the men were full of fight, as indeed they well might be after their magnificent achievement of the previous day, an achievement of which any army might well be proud. General Bridges' report gives such details as is possible, but with the troops so scattered about on such a difficult position, anything like an exact detailed account is impossible. The casualties were, I regret to say, very heavy amounting to approximately 500 killed, 2,500 wounded, and 2,000 missing. I trust, however, that a large number in the last-named category may eventually prove to have been wounded. The wounded had to be evacuated from all points of the beach as quickly as possible and it was not therefore feasible at the time to keep any exact record of the numbers despatched. I am unable to state the numbers of the enemy's casualties, but they were certainly very heavy, as on more than one occasion maxim guns got on to them when in groups, and the country all round my position is still literally strewn with dead Turks who are added to daily. I had hoped to be able to start reorganising brigades and getting units together on the 26th and 27th. The enemy, however, persistently attacked us day and night, giving us no rest of any sort, and affording no opportunity whatever for relieving any portion of the line to start reorganising. ∧On the 27th, during the day, and more so during the night, Turkish attacks were continuous and determined, but these were successfully repulsed. The losses had been so heavy that an advance was not possible until I could reorganise, and consequently it only remained to dig in on our present position, and to get water, supplies, and ammunition to the ridges held, which was in itself a most difficult undertaking. The casualties on the 26th ∧and 27th amounted to between 500 and 600, and since then have averaged about 250 daily.  On the night of the 2nd May an attempt was made to improve our position by pushing up the valley and attempting to seize the knoll on spur 700, but the position was found too strong, and the original position was re-occupied with a loss of 800 men. On the morning of 2nd May, a party was sent to examine Mt Falcon, where an observing station was found, and 12 of the enemy were captured, three others being killed. On the morning of May 4th, an attempt was made to seize Kaba Tepe, but was not successful, as the enemy were found to be in strength in a position which is just a perfect honeycomb of trenches; I hope to be able to take this later on with a stronger force. Two battalions of the Marine Brigade were attached to my Army Corps on the 28th April, and two battalions of the Naval Brigade  on the 29th, while the 2nd Australian Infantry Brigade, the New Zealand Infantry Brigade, and five batteries of field artillery were transferred to the force at Cape Helles on 5/6th May, and 3rd/4th May, respectively. At this time, the approximate strength of our Brigades, viz- 1st, 3rd, and 4th Australian Infantry, was 2,200 per Brigade. I cannot too deeply express my gratitude and that of my whole corps to Admiral Thursby, and his officers, and men, for the assistance they have given us, without which it would of course have been impossible for us to have effected anything. I do not refer only to the gun fire of the ships which has been invaluable, and which time after time has silenced the enemy's guns; but landing and transport details, and all the arrangements for the evacuation of the wounded from the shore, in the Admiral's hands left nothing to chance, while the pluck and dash of those engaged in landing parties was all that the traditions of the Royal Navy led us to expect. I also wish to mention that, but for the excellent arrangements Admiral Thursby has made for providing us with water ashore, my force here could not exist.  
I have the honor to be, 
Sir,
Your obedient servant,
Lieut-General, 
Commanding Australian and New Zealand Army Corps. 

With Lady B letter.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND ARMY CORPS.
From:- General Officer Commanding, A. and N. Z. Army Corps.
To:- Chief of General Staff, M. E. F.