

Author: William Birdwood
Date: 4  April 1915.
Rank: Lieutenant
Nationality: Australian.
 
Text:

My own little wife.
At last we really are all
leaving here. I am going with my
staff on Tuesday & every one else goes by
degrees as it takes some time to get
a big force like this off. I will write
again from board ship. It is getting
very warm here in tents so the troops
will be quite glad to get away - indeed
for some time they have been very stale
with all this desert work & are longing
to get some fighting. I think they
little realise what is probably
before them & will get as much as they could wish for. Tell your Father that the latest addition to my force is a contingent of 500 Maoris. What they will be worth it is hard to say. Brown people & generally fat. It is very curious that the Australian absolutely refuses to look at a native of any sort & will not allow one even to enter the country. While the Maori
is treated absolutely as an equal. Some of them live in the same companies as our men - get the same pay - feed with them & are one of them. All are Christians. Yesterday they gave us a Maori war dance - a most curious affair, it made them look most weird &
one could quite see Canabalism
through their skins - the awful faces & gesticulations they made - you could almost imagine them tearing bodies
to pieces & eating them. But when not
dancing they are most mild looking creatures & give one this idea of being
soft. They have nice voices & speak English with no accent. I have the small Ceylon Planters Contingent with me also, but most of them have been given Commissions in the new Army. The last officer to join me is Capt. Evans, husband of the red haired lady
at Simler. He has come with my
signal Company which has now
been temporarily bagged by Sir 
Ian Hamilton, till his own arrives.
I have just taken a day's holiday
& ran up the river to see Luxor. I
took Carruthers with me. We got
there early one morning & at once started
off on donkeys to see the "Tombs of the
Kings" across the river. Wonderful
things they are, though one cannot
help thinking they must have been a
very doleful race, when a man
apparently as soon as he became
King, started building his own
tomb & went on embellishing it &
enlarging it till he died!
Apparently the great thing was to
make it impossible for the tomb
ever to be opened, & those in the 
Pyramids were sealed up with 
tremendous care by huge blocks of
granite & all marks at the entrance
hidden. In these ones, you go first
up a regular frontier valley at the head
of which are the tombs including
Ramases II - the Pharaoh of the [[Nile?]].
In each case they burrowed a tunnel 
in the side of the hill then cut a 
series of chambers in the rock - passages
connecting each generally all sloping
downwards till you come to the tomb.
Some had mummies in them, but nearly
all are empty. The walls though are
covered with carvings & pictures, the 
of some of which look absolutely new now after 3000 years. There is a real sameness about them - nearly all
being processions, boats, prisoners, libations, sacrifices, fighting etc. It is the wonderful labour which has been done & the carvings which are things to be seen. The Mummie is placed in a huge granite coffin which must weigh tons & one of the great marvels is how it was ever got there. Then when the funeral was over a bit of the hill was knocked down over the entrance & all trace of it lost. It seems rather a waste of all the labour taken! Robbers in years gone by started finding & opening them, but  I fancy there must be many more yet to be found, but it's an expensive job. As well as the tombs 
we saw the Great Temples of Luxor and [[Cartore?]]. Huge things they are with masses of enormous columns & figures most of which are in ruins - the grandeur  of the conception of the enormous work done fill one with wonder. One really wanted 2 or 3 days there, while we only had 9 hours; but got through a good deal in that time & nearly ran our French Egyptologist who showed us round to death. I have just been to such a nice Church service with one of my comrades. They are supposed to have one combined service for Church of England, Presbyterians & Methodists which was agreed to by them & laid down in Australia. But to this the C of E man refuses to come! The other two happen to be first rate men & the Scotchman has given us 
some A.1. sermons. Today I stopped to Communion there, a thing I have never before done at a Scotch service, but he was
so keen on all denominations joining that I did so, & a very nice simple earnest
service it was. They presented me with
a very nice small bible - or rather New Testament.
I have to leave all my Mounted
Brigades - I now have four of them - behind me for the present as the country up there is quite unsuitable for mounted men. They are fearfully sick at being left., but I tell them there is lots of time for them yet. I'm so glad you got to Clifton for Chris'
confirmation. You must tell me about
Lady [[C?]], Miss [[Denner?]] & Mrs Fremantle. Goodbye my own little one. All my
love to you always. Ever your very loving old, Will.

Must close. All my love to you always dear heart.
Ever your very loving
Will.

D.O.
HEADQUARTERS AUSTRALIAN
& NEW ZEALAND ARMY CORPS