
Author: William Birdwood
Date: 14 June 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:
 My own darling girl, I am so disgusted to hear you haven't been getting my letters & I do so hope that in your next one I shall hear that several of them have arrived, for I really sent you off a great many between the time of our landing and our first months here - interesting ones too, telling you about all that had happened.  I only wish I had numbered them.  The first four telling you of our landing were written on sheets from my field pocket book & I think I wrote some to Chris too out of this.  I am sure I must have written at least & half a dozen letters before I sent that post card to Judith, so it is very annoying to think that that is all that has reached home.  It is just possible that the censor may have stopped & destroyed them, though I do not think this is likely as they have always been censored here with our stamp.  Do be sure & let me know if you think you have got them all later on, as very often when I thought ships would be going I posted two or three in as many days, so you really should have got quite a lot.  Now things are much quieter. The Turks I daresay will attack us again ere long, but I think they are rather afraid of us now & want a lot of working up to attack again, so I am glad to say we are having many less casualties daily - about 50 killed & wounded.  When we make a move again we must expect to lose a lot. If you remember it try & tell me the dates of some of my first letters from here, as I fancy they should go on regularly from about 28th April. I am so sorry to hear of poor Bottomley's death.  He certainly was not what I could in any way describe as a loveable character or a man to admire - but "de
mortuis nil nisi bonum", and I fancy he was a fine soldier & how Minnie was evidently quite devoted to him,  though apparently she hadn't always cause to be so. However I know she will feel this terribly & it must be all the worse
for her, the boy being such a young bounder as apparently he is? How is she left off? Fairly well I hope - and I wonder what she will do. Your Father will dread the idea of her wanting to stay indefinitely at Thurlby. Poor thing I do feel sorry for her, for I fancy she is rather helpless while I am sure she is most awfully good hearted - and her appearance is so against her unless perhaps she now decides to alter this! I see that that nice Capt. Auld has been wounded & is apparently 
a prisoner in Germany - a bad look out.
I forget if when I first wrote to you about old Sir G. Reid I also mentioned a Mr. Mackenzie. He is the High Commissioner for New Zealand & such a nice fellow, very different to Sir G who is always so full of self confidence & bon homie. Mackenzie is a much more retiring & rather shy man but such a sterling good fellow, whom I would describe as one of nature's gentlemen. A Scotchman who possibly migrated to N.Z. as 
a child or perhaps as his Father did so. I mention him as he was writing to me last week & talked about having just been to see some N.Z. wounded & I told him I was sure you'd be glad to see any if you were in town again later on - so if he writes to you, you will know who he is. He is the Hon. T. Mackenzie, C.M.G. if you want to know how to address him. Do you remember our going out to India in the "Sicilia" in 1902 & taking Chris as a small boy? Fancy, I have ∧her here now as one of my hospital ships ( & go on board occasionally (when things are quiet) to see the wounded before they are taken off to Egypt. Wounded are taken on board every day, & when she is full up she goes off & another ship relieves her. With these submarines about the hospital ship is the only one we can keep lying at anchor & so far the Germans have not attempted to attack her, though I should never be surprised if they do so one of these days!
I find the best thing to do here is to have a mixed lunch - tea meal!  I generally start off round my trenches at about 9 & get back about 3.30. I fear that neither Onslow or Churnside who take it in turns to come with me appreciate late hours very much.  I mean not getting back in time for them to have lunch, but at times I do get back. They are both of them now quite accustomed to bullets & shells & have become old soldiers! But my whole position is now very much safer than it was as I have trenches cut through every spur & traverses across every path around the hills, so we can move about with a great feeling of safety. The first months or so, I always felt it was just a doubt if one would get back safely from the morning's outing, so I used to post you a letter before I started. Now it is ever so much safer though of course bullets keep flying over head in many places & in the trenches I  was in this morning they kept spattering around the loopholes 
in the trenches - a great satisfaction when you are safely inside to hear the thud on the sand bag & to see the sand 
flying harmlessly about!
You don't mention if you ever saw Col. Fitz or Lord K. when in London? I do hope you did.
You will have got my letter telling you to write to James Watson & ask him to invest all spare money we have at  the Bank. If you have not already done so, better do it now, & get him to invest xx the total balance - you must tell him what it is - as you will be getting more early each month. The last 2 letters I have got of yours are dated 26 & 27 May. Have you seen Mrs. Townshend? I see her Charlie is up - I imagine Commanding a Division - under Genl. Nixon in Mesopotemia, at present probably between Basrah & Baghdad in the country I went over that winter I was up there. The heat there now must be perfectly awful, while I doubt if there will be much fighting, as most of the Turks have come across to oppose us here.
It is getting quite hot here & we are starting that awful 
curse of all the East, a plague of flies. They are in myriads everywhere & make life in the trenches very trying. Thank goodness the faithful Onslow has been 
able to get hold of some mosquito netting which 
makes life much more bearable.
Surely Thurlby will be quite quiet & not crowded when you go back? Judy's family will I suppose be there, but otherwise I suppose only you & Kath Robins I see has gone to [[Bershire?]] - I doubt how he will like it after a bit. I have heard a good deal about the Northcliffe (Times & Daily Mail) attack on Lord K from Clive Wigram. Lord N. & Rebington apparently went to stay with French & picked up all sorts of gossip from his Staff about shortage of ammunition etc. & then began this attack. A counter attack by the anti-Northcliffe-ites was only just stopped or there might have been a big scandal.  Lord K's Garter & the general display of feeling against the Times & D.M. is about the best answer that could have been given, though I knew how annoyed dear old K. will have been about it all. Poor Genl. Aitken. I am sorry for him, though I must say he seemed to me to have made a most unholy mess of the whole East African Expedition. I'm so glad you met Mrs Hancock as I was sure you would like her & I hope you may see her again, as she really is a genuine nice creature who can say & do things which no one but an American can, & if you talk to her for half an hour, her amusing expressions will make you die with laughter. I suppose she is having a bit of spell off from nursing in her Belgian hospital. Have you seen Mrs Lotbiniėre at all? I hope so, for she too is so nice, & he is a perfect dear. I have just had to send him to Egypt to try & get me some water boats, or we will find ourselves with no water here to drink! I first sent him to see Sir Ian about this & I really felt quite flattered when he came back & said Sir Ian had been very nice about me, & had said I always reminded him of Lord Roberts! I do indeed call that the greatest praise possible for Lord R was splendid & in many ways a most ideal & loveable character - while he certainly proved himself one of the 
finest & greatest of Englishmen of our time. Goodbye my own little lamb. All my love to you & the children always. Ever your very loving old, Will. 