Author: F S Maude
Date: 16 May 1917
Nationality: British

Text:



General Headquarters,  Mesopotamian  Expeditionary Force.  16th May, 1917.   My dear General  Many thanks for you kind letter of congratulations  for which I am most grateful.  Everything has gone most smoothly out here and we have  been very lucky, whilst I cannot tell you how splendid the  troops have been. As a result of five months incessant  fighting our men care nothing for the Turks and go slap at  them whenever they see them even across the most open  ground. Only the day before yesterday a squadron of  cavalry was held up at a small village, so the Squadron  Commander placed his machine guns in position and carried  the village by a mounted charge. I only mention this as  typical of the splendid spirits of the troops. the fierce  fighting in the Hai salient, the passages of the Tigris and  Dialah, and the final storming of Sannaiyat were in  particular fine pieces of work on their part, and I feel  sure that if the Turk pays us any more attention he will  receive an equally warm welcome as he got before.  The weather here is already intensely hot, and having  accomplished all that we set out to do we are busy settling  down to summer camps, where I trust the troops will get a  much needed rest and where I hope that we shall make them  as comfortable as possible.  Personally i look forward to a busy summer. Present  and future operations, Arab tribesmen all round, extended  lines of communication, the exploiting of local supplies,  new railways, proximity of the Russians, political questions,  the reorganisation  of the civil and military administration  of Baghdad, and a hundred other items will give one plenty  to do.  Our movements must have been particularly interesting  to you with your accurate and recent knowledge of the  country.  You are quite right in saying that the railway workshops  here were good. Indeed everything we found was  done on a magnificent scale and evidently the Germans  meant to stay. We did not get any rolling stock to speak  of here, but when we got into Samarrah we got a good deal  there, and though some of it was damaged most of it is  repairable.  We watch with interest your fine progress on the  Western front and are hoping daily to hear of further  successes there.  Yrs sincerely  F.S. Maude  Maude   To:  Lieut.-Gen. Sir W.R. Birdwood, K.C.S.I., K.C.M.G., C.B., C.I.E.,D.S.O.  Commanding 1st Anzac Corps,  British Army in the Field,  F R AN C E.
