
Author: William Birdwood
Date: 20 June 1915.
Nationality: Australian

Text:
  My own darling girl,  Very glad indeed to get your letter of 1st & 3rd  & to know you had at last got my first letters from here - I do   hope you have really got them all as I expect you have - the   post office may purposely have held them all up for a week or so   before delivering them. I wonder how on earth the Daily Mirror   can have got hold of that yarn about me having been killed -   I have just been shown the photo they published & along side   of it is one of Genl. Cunliffe-Owen who is my artillery staff   officer. As a matter of fact. I left him on board ship to arrange   about their gun fire for this first week of our landing & he has   never been touched in any way, though they report him as   "killed while leading the Australian troops to the attack"!!   It just shows how they can get hold of things. He is a very   nice fellow & excellent R.A. officer. He has I believe a very   nice American wife (with I fancy, money) and he is writing to   tell her to write to you to see if you can arrange to meet   when we are next in town - she I fancy lives somewhere   down Aldershot way & motors up. She apparently at once   wrote a contradiction to the Morning Post on her own. She  is asking me if it is possible to prosecute the Mirror.    I have told him much better to leave it alone, that   I doubt if it is a libel - I have just been shown  though the photo of myself & I'm not at all sure that isn't a libel!!  For I am not nearly so bald  as they make me, & such little hair as they give me  seems to be lank & parted in the middle, which certainly  does not meet my description.  As a matter of fact now I   have had all my hair off with horse clippers which is the only  thing to do for cleanliness in these parts.  Did the reporter  give any excuse at all as to how they published their  statement & the photos Owen says he is sure they must have  enlarged from that large group copies of which I sent you from  Cairo.  We haven't been doing much since I last wrote, but have  our daily "hate" doses - Going out to some of my trenches   yesterday a Turkish gun seemed to be deliberately   following us, though of course it wasn't, and one round   after another came plumeting into the road a minute   or two after I had passed that particular spot.  I really   think, we have quite frightened the Turks round us &   have established a complete moral superiority over them -  partly by the numbers of them we have killed & now they   never dare show a head over their trenches anywhere   or they are at once shot - & partly in the excellent trenches   we have made. Consequently they devote their   attention in attacking on the force further south   which is a great nuisance.  As I am hoping for   them to come along and have another go at them 
when I'd hope to kill another 4000 of them  which would probably lead to their complete route.    I don't think the other Divisions have anything like the   good trenches I have, nor have they made up "periscope   rifles" as we have which enable my men to sit down   comfortably behind the parapet & shoot with their rifles   18" above their heads, so that all the Turks can see   is the muzzle of a rifle - and they don't like it a bit!  In some of the shelling here a few days ago, one came   right into John McConaghy's "dug out"- so it was just as   well I had sent him to Alexandria a few days before to see   to one or two things or it might have found him at home!    I have sent dear old Lotbiniēre (who is his Brig-Genl)   there too for a few days to try & get me some water boats  or we will be having a water famine here. My dug out has   been reinforced since a shell landed at the entrance & literally   within six inches of me when I was having my hair clipped -  a real astonisher for the clipper!!  Lucky he hadn't scissors in   his hand or he might have had a ear off!! Onslow is very  well & when bathing the other day, Skeen heard an Australian  say "That's a fine young fellow. I wonder what is job  here is"- Not quite the same as another Staff Officer  who was accosted by a man with "Hullo-Sonny, you  look about fit to be killed you do - get a double  ratis ration of biscuit I expect" - You can  expect no respect of person when naked! 
We can't have any mess here & all feed together in  little batches of twos. I always hare feed by myself  except dinner, for which each of the staff come to me  in turns so I see a good deal of them all. Carruthers  is looking very old.  You certainly seem to have been doing lots in the Australia  Committee meeting line & I am sure they will all  appreciate this. Mrs Osbourne seems very kind, though I did  not know she was looking out for work for Nancy - an excellent  thing, if she can make herself quite useful.  Judith must have loved Madame Tussauds, if she wasn't  frightened?  The poor Michaels!. I feel so sorry for them as I am sure  they must both be most disappointed people, while she is  a dear kind hearted person. I haven't yet seen The  honours gazette, but fear he will not have got  anything, though I much hope Bob has - he in so  thoroughly deserves it.  Fancy old Lady Reid being golden haired & painted!  Seeing him makes one quite surprised, as he has  remained so simple & does not I think pretend to  be anything but what he is - just a man of the  people - & such a kindly hearted one - I  daresay though that she is very nice & I hope golden golden hearted as well as golden hearted-  I am sure he is.  Have you seen Mrs Lobo or Mrs Carruthers at all?  I'm glad you have seen Mrs Marlow & Mrs Armstrong  seems quite forthcoming. I think she is nice. I  wonder who Lady Robinson's husband is - Is he an  Australian? What a let down Sir Dighton is. It was  just like him to find out at once from the War Office  then to let you know. I shouldn't be surprised if he hadn't  also let the Daily Mirror know too!  I wonder if anything like a big air raid has been made  on London. We have heard boqg vague rumours of  such but I don't believe them yet. I can't think  how it is that fleets of very much faster moving  aeroplanes can not at once pounce  on & destroy the  slow lumbering zepolins - You would think it must  be a case of a submarine being able to get at a  battleship, with the advantage that the aeroplane  can always keep the air ship in sight.  I don't know that I remember that Lady Edith  Charles, but I used to know her brother   well. Such a very nice fellow he is too. 
He was then Ulick Browne in the 12th  Bengal Cavalry - afterwards became Lord U.B.  7th Marquis of Sligo _ I last saw him  when he came out, to India one winter after  he had left the B.C.  Goodbye my own little lamb and all  my love to you.  Ever your very loving old,  Will.
 Have you seen anything of Dorothy & how is she -  You mention lunching with her - But I am not sure  if you mean Halhed's D. or D.R.? Halhed  tells me his D. has got over her operation  all right. I wonder where she is living?    
