Author: William Birdwood
Date: 5 August 1916
Nationality: Australian.

Text:



5 August 1916 Friday My own darling girl.
I'd far rather Nancy should remain on at Harefield & I hope she will do so quite contentedly & happily. My reasons are - I feel that the Harefield people & all the Australians would be really quite hurt if she left there. I am sure they look upon her as one of themselves by now, are very proud proud too she is there, while any of the men here who know about it, also appreciate it, and I am sure that none of them would like to think she had gone - and that too to another hospital. They would not understand the difference in the  different class of work she could do there & what she now does - and while I am head of the Australians I like to think of her being
there &helping our men.  Then too,  supposing the nursing didn't suit her, or for any reason she didn't get on with Mrs D.  she would have to leave it & couldn't return to Harefield. And is she strong enough to stand the really heavy strain of nursing? Also I don't much care to be under any sort of obligation in the matter &  for Nancy to go there more or less "as a favour"? If they couldn't stretch a point & take her at first - that was an end to it - and I don't care to think of her going now & checking what she is doing. "Shoemaker stick to your last",  is as true now as ever.  I am not unmindful of little Nancy
in this. I know she must have a dull time of it at Harefield & I am so pleased with her at the way she has stuck to it & admire her very much for it.  She might think it would be nice "fun" to go to Mrs. D - but I think that is very unlikely - the novelty would I am sure be enjoyable to her at first - but when that was over, there could be little more from them at Harefield - So I think you might  write and say. I think she can not throw over the Australians who were so kind in taking her in when this hospital was started & that I wish her to remain with it.  Nancy will I am sure understand this
herself & tell her I do hope she will not be disappointed about it - & I know she will wish to stick to the Australians while I do so! I think too is she is too young for real nursing. You needn't worry about our not holding Poziēres.  We have had a real hard time of it there, with continual bombardments through which it is wonderful that any one lives - but I am glad to say that as I write we are advancing beyond it & taking all the German trenches above it.  All the German strong second line trenches ran behind the village which was is a little way down the hill side on our side of the ridge, so the taking of the village was not really so 
difficult as the taking of the ridge & trenches beyond it which we are attacking at the present  moment with an absolute war of artillery - & about which I feet quite confident. Saturday morning.  The attack has panned out all right. I was writing to you up to about mid night last night while it was going on hard - & by this morning we had taken all the trenches we wanted & now hold the whole crest originally held by the Germans. They evidently don't like it a bit as they have already counter attacked twice & have been driven off with heavy loss. They will certainly do so again, but I do not feel very apprehensive, and I'm sure we will
hold our own comfortably - but, of course my troops up there are very tired & I must start relieving them today, as some of them have probably had no sleep for a long time.  I haven't yet got full details, but up to now I know of at least 500 German prisoners taken, & I hope for more - but I fear no guns, beyond maxims.  However it is quite as big & good a thing as has been done here for some little time.
From what I see in the papers about petrol difficulties I fancy it is just as well you were not able to get a car!  I see the Archbishop of York is only allowed to buy 20 gallons of petrol as a maximum - with no assurance that he will get even half as much as that during the month - and that to
visit his whole diocese. You might well have found yourself unable to buy any,  As I fear we wouldn't have been able to show any duty necessity - which would have been rather a sell!  I am so glad you have quite a comfy trap & do hope it will do you well & hope your Father's new horse will be satisfactory. But I am so distressed my little one, to hear you are sleeping so badly again. You simply must get over this.  Remember there is nothing whatever to worry about.  It is I know the thinking about it which makes one not sleep.  I know it is very easy to say this but I can't think why in the quiet of Thurlby, you
didn't sleep all night - try to think as little about it as you possibly can -  if only the German Emperor was dead, it might be quite all right - but really you need not worry about anything - & especially about not sleeping.  So for my sake do sleep my own little one & all my love to you. Ever your very loving old, 
Will.