Author: R Wingate
Date: 5 July 1917
Location: Egypt
Nationality: British

Text:



THE RESIDENCY RAMLEH EGYPT.     HIGH COMMISSIONER  FOR EGYPT.  5th July 1917  Dictated.   My dear Birdwood I am so much obliged to you for your intensely interesting letter dated 20th May in which you were good enough to enclose a copy of a letter which you had recently  written to the Governor General of Australia describing the fighting since your gallant Corps entered Bapaume. I do indeed congratulate you and your magnificent troops most warmly for their splendid courage and devotion to duty in this grand and most successful advance. You must be indeed proud to command such men and I hope it will not be long before you have the Hindenburg line behind you. It pleased me immensely to see that my old friend Smyth had done so well and I should be so grateful if you would convey to him my warmest congratulations and tell him that I should have written to him long ago but am overwhelmed with work. It was as you say bad luck that the Russians should have collapsed just at the critical moment when their offensive would have been of such enormous value, but they seem to have got on the move again and I earnestly trust the
good news which has come through during  the last few days will now continue - This resumption of a successful offensive will do more than anything else to destroy the seeds of anarchy, sedition and extreme socialism so sedulously sown by our enemies who are utterly regardless of even the elements of morality.  I saw the poor Sultan a short time ago - As you know he is still far from well,  but he was immensely pleased with your kind message and evidently he has a warm affection for you. I am afraid I misinformed you about the Class of the Nile you are to receive - I am sure that had the Sultan been entirely free in the matter he would have given you the Grand Cordon and nothing would have pleased him more than to do so, but unfortunately  the Class of Decoration to be awarded you for the work you performed in Egypt has to be regularised in relation to others who held similar rank and position at that time, and it appears that the only officers to receive Grand Cordons were Murray and Wemyss, and were that Class to be conferred on you it is  thought it would create considerable feeling amongst the contemporary Generals here at the time who received only Second Classes - It has therefore 
been decided that you are to receive a Second Class and I am extremely sorry to have misinformed you in my previous letter on this point - When the Sultan discussed it he naturally viewed the matter rather from the standpoint of your present considerably - more exalted rank and position than that you held in Egypt - I feel sure you will fully understand and appreciate the situation. I believe that the Decoration and Brevet are now on their way to you. I had great pleasure in meeting Allenby who stayed with us for a day and a night last week and he is rapidly getting the hang of things in this country - From what I have seen of him I feel pretty sure he will make the best of the very difficult and complicated situation which has arisen consequent on the two failures at Gaza and the Russian co11apse which has enabled the Turks to make an extremely strong defensive position stretching from Gaza almost to Bir Sheba. There are rumours that a biggish Turkish offensive is contemplated against Maud in the not distant future, but I gather he now feels ready to take on anything. I am very glad to hear that Butler is doing
so well - will you give him all kind messages from me. And with very best wishes, my dear Birdwood, to yourself and your gallant Corps for still greater successes in the near future, Yours very sincerely,  RWingate  General Sir William  Birdwood, K.C.S.I.,K.C.M.G.,C.B.,C.I.E. &c. 1st ANZAC CORPS, B. E. F., France.