Author: William Birdwood
Date: 20 December 1915.
Location: Dardanelles
Rank: Field Marshall.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:



Headquarters,
Dardanelles Army, M.E.F.
20th December, 1915.
 
I wrote to you last week in a natural state of considerable anxiety about our evacuation, but I think I said that I felt fairly confident of being able to carry it off successfully provided the weather did not play me false, and the Navy could produce the necessary small craft. I never, however, dared to hope that we could possibly meet with the success we did, and none of us can ever be sufficiently grateful to Providence for seeing us through as was done. The weather was absolutely perfect.  Two perfectly quiet, calm nights, with no wind, and I am thankful to say a certain amount of cloud to dim the strong moon.  This saved the Navy from all anxiety as regards their boats being knocked about, hence we were able to work with complete confidence of success.
The first night of my final stage was of course no trouble, for though I got rid of 10,000 men in each Corps that night, it left me with 10,000 men in each to hold the respective areas for the remaining twenty four hours.  What I most feared was a big storm coming on when I was short of strength, so you can imagine how thankful I now feel.  I carried out exactly the programme I had always intended, spending the last day but one in making all final arrangements at Suvla - cruising up and down the coast that night in a destroyer - spending my very last day on the peninsula at my beloved "Anzac," and going round for the last time the trenches made by the Division which first landed with us - then the final night on board the "Chatham" with Weymss.
My last day there was, as I am sure you will 
believe really a trying one, as I very much felt leaving the place, and I could see that a great many men did the same, though when I explained it was only to enable us to put in more useful work against the enemy elsewhere, they were I think quite satisfied.
You can imagine how anxious we all were on the very last night.  Things at Suvla were quiet practically throughout the night, but I was a little disturbed when there was a good deal of firing off and on at "Anzac," at one time almost threatening an attack, but I was thankful that there was very little shelling.  The Naval arrangements I may mention were absolutely perfect, and without any hitch of any sort. Boats all came in at the appointed times at their proper places. The last big lot, holding the front trenches all round from the right of "Anzac" to the left of Suvla, were divided into three sections, who gradually withdrew through each other in turn, until very small parties were left covering the actual piers, and they, too, got quickly down on board and left.  At times constant heavy firing made me anxious up to the end, as it was impossible to tell how much of this was being opened from the Turks' trenches, or how much the Turks had found out and were following on. You will probably remember that some months ago I started making several really big tunnels under the enemy's positions, with the idea of sapping forward and having some very big blow-ups under more than one of their main trenches. I had caused a tunnel under one of the most important of these, viz. Russell's Top, to be pushed on rapidly during the last fortnight, and this we charged with several hundred pounds of ammonal in three separate mines, which I ordered to be exploded at intervals of two minutes.  When the rear party were well away, these were fired with complete success, a volcanic eruption being seen for miles around, and quite competing on a small scale with Vesuvius! The result was wonderful, in that the whole of the Turks, evidently anticipating a big attack, lined their trenches, and for about an hour continued to fire away as fast as they could possibly load, meanwhile our men were well down on their way to the beach in comfort.
The results of this and many other ruses which were tried were so satisfactory, that it is hard to believe that we got away the two Army Corps with only two men wounded!  It really is almost incredible, for the Turks must have observed us for a week beforehand making preparations, for though we naturally tried all we could to conceal these, yet the nights were fairly light, and it was impossible to hide everything.  I must say the men were perfectly wonderful, and no praise can be too high for the way they entered into it as an adventure quite after their own hearts, and this not only applies to my Australians and New Zealanders, but I know that the troops on my left were just the same.  There was an absolute struggle with the men insisting to be with the final rearguard party, and they were most indignant on being told that they must get on, and that the rearguard was following, as each man seemed to claim that it was his special right to be with it to the very end.  With a spirit like this, you will realise how easy matters were.
We wrapped up all the men's feet in old sacking and blankets, so that there was not a sound made as they left the trenches.  In a few places most cunning devices had been made by fastening a rifle on to the parapet, and firing it by a weight arranged with a tin full of water and a hole bored in it, which could be timed to drop and pull the trigger at any given number of minutes after the trenches had been vacated.  Several other dodges of the same sort were devised, such as candles burning for an inch or so, and then reaching a firework which exploded with a loud report.  The results of them all were evidently satisfactory, for the Turks never seemed to discover that we were off. When the mine was fired, they kept up their continuous fire on our trenches for a good hour after we had actually left the shore, which the last man did at about 4.30 a.m.  Later on still they began to bombard our whole (now deserted) position, and at nine o'clock in the morning, they seemed to turn every gun they possessed on to the trenches, so it is at all events some satisfaction to know that they have got through and wasted a great deal of ammunition.  Our mine must have accounted for a really large number of them, as it spread right into the middle of one of their positions covering two or three trenches.
During the preliminary stage of about a week, we had dribbled off nearly everything of value we possessed, and the last day I went round, I could find practically no ordnance or engineer stores left, while we evacuated nearly the whole of our animals, leaving I think fifty only at "Anzac" out of a total of some 6,000 between the two Corps.  Guns had of course been dribbled off gradually, every battery being reduced, first to a section, and then to a single gun with lots of ammunition for it, and finally single guns were dribbled off.  We had 200 guns originally, and of these Suvla got off the whole of their 90, while "Anzac" evacuated one hundred of their total of one hundred and seven, the seven remaining being completely blown to pieces.
I am bound to confess that Suvla managed their evacuation in material far better than we at "Anzac," though as you will remember, their facilities were very much greater, for they have more piers, and their transports could stand right in close to the piers in Suvla Bay, while at "Anzac" the lighters have to go a long way out to sea.  Also, I must confess that Suvla took a real flying start!  You will remember that we had orders to commence evacuating, when both Corps started making preliminary arrangements - then came an idea of the possibility of our not going, when I had to tell both Corps to sit tight for a bit, and in fact to put in more supplies for themselves.  I have a shrewd suspicion that Suvla did not take much notice of this, but went on getting rid of stuff, and as it so happens this has turned out all right.  Byng organised the destruction of the stores he left behind very well indeed, and it was a wonderful sight to see at the last moment, as if by a wave of the magician's wand, the whole of his surplus stores suddenly bursting into flame, and forming huge bonfires.  At "Anzac," I am sorry to say this was not done, and the enemy must have got a certain amount of food, though nothing that would last them for more than a few days, and of course not of any great value.
Yesterday afternoon, to take the Turks' attention off the Northern zone, I made Davies organise a fairly big attack on the Turks' trenches at Helles, where we had a tremendous bombardment by the Navy, which I think created a most sucessful diversion, for three or four monitors and two cruisers were down there, hammering in as hard as they were worth with their big guns, and attracting the whole attention of the peninsula to them.  The attacks made were quite successful, and we took two or three Turkish trenches.
It may be that we got away just about the right time, for when I was going round "Anzac" yesterday, the Turks suddenly opened on us with new, very big howitzers, firing some excellently made, clean cut, steel shells of about ten inches in diameter.  It is quite possible that these were the Austrian howitzers, which we had heard about, and that they were just registering our positions before starting a big bombardment.  In the course of about an hour, they put in 50 of these big shells along the trenches, and though I believe  noone was hurt, yet they seem to fall all round, and I got  covered with mud from one that came a bit nearer than usual. To show how little the Turks suspected our going,  deserters came in even up to the very night before we left,  and the tremendous shelling they gave directly we had gone  looked as if they could hardly believe we had cleared out. When you come to think that in a great many places our trenches  are not more than twenty five yards apart, it certainly is a  wonderful credit to the men that they should have been able to  slip away as they did, and I think shews a very high state of  discipline which is altogether praiseworthy. You can imagine  what a weight seems to have rolled off one's shoulders, when I  got back here early this morning, and realised the astoundingly  good fortune we had had, when a piece of bad fortune might have  resulted in terribly heavy losses. It is not, too, as if the Turks had reduced their  numbers in front of us, for we calculate that in the trenches  facing the "Anzac" and Suvla corps, with their supports and purely  local reserves, there were approximately 80,000 Turks and a great  many guns of all calibres, and I should imagine the higher German  officers on the spot will come in for some well-deserved abuse,  when it is known that they have allowed us to slip away from such  a difficult position through /what one might call the narrowest possible  of bottle necks, (viz. one or two temporary piers) without7 being able  to do us any damage. It was extraordinary, too, that they had not  the enterprise to push forward at once to find out the situation  themselves, instead of allowing the whole of their heavy and light  artillery to carry out a continuous, organised bombardment as they  did on our evacuated position. Our intentions, too, should have been obvious to them,  looking down as they do from the hills around on practically all our movements. As you know, not a single lighter can leave  our beaches without being seen, and though we of course  confined movements to the night as much as possible, yet a  certain amount of craft was necessarily seen moving about in  the daytime. Curiously enough, they seem all along to have  anticipated that we were making arrangements for an attack,  and not a retirement. The attack we did carry out on their  position at Helles about eight hours before we commenced the  withdrawal from the other areas, may perhaps have deceived  them more than I thought probable, as we know that they at once  reinforced down there when the attack began. You know how I have all along hated the idea of  leaving "Anzac," and all the wonderful work done there by my  men, but it is at all events some consolation to realise we  have been able to do this without any loss whatever, while we  certainly must have inflicted a considerable amount on the  Turks, even if only in the explosion of the mines at Russell's  Top, which as I have said were right under several of their  trenches, which were evidently fully manned at the time, as  immediately to right and left rolls of musketry fire were  opened from men apparently at quite close intervals, so it is  reasonable to suppose that they were manned like this throughout. Then, again, I have just had reports that late this  afternoon large numbers of Turks came swarming over, seeing I  suppose what loot they could get hold of that had been left  behind, when the cruisers and destroyers, who had of course  remained off the coast, put heavy fire into them, and say they  accounted for large numbers. Aspinall, who has practically represented my General  Staff throughout all this, and MacMunn, who is now my D.A. and  Q.M.G., have both played up capitally, and have done really well,  while Monro has been extremely good in leaving me an entirely free hand. Now I feel that the only thing I want at the present  moment is a really long sleep, as I have not had more than an  hour in the last fortyeight. Before closing, I should just like to mention that  the whole of the success of this operation is due entirely to the  Corps Commanders - Byng and Godley, and their staffs, who made all  arrangements most excellently, and left me really little or  nothing to do beyond perhaps a suggestion here or a word of  encouragement there during my practically daily visits to their  positions, while the co-operation of Davies in his attack from  Helles was as wholehearted as you would expect.                                                              (S'gd) W. R. Birdwood.    
P.S. (21st) More than ever do I realise how entirely we have to  thank Providence for evacuating successfully as we have done. A  real South-westerly gale sprang up at about 1 a.m. today. Had  this been 24 hours earlier, it would probably have caught us with  some six to eight thousand men still ashore, when getting off  would have been extremely difficult. I had given orders that once  embarkation had actually started on the final night, it was to be  continued whatever happened, the men if necessary having to wade  out up to their necks to be hauled into boats, but this would of  course have entailed not only considerable loss at the time, but  so much delay that we could not possibly have got through everything before daylight, when we should have come in for a bad time  of it. (It is indeed wonderful to look back on, and I trust I am  sufficiently thankful.) To emphasise this, I may mention that my original  plans were to have had the final night of evacuation on the 20th/21st,  but it was only about ten days ago that I found the  Navy could  manage to guarantee the collection of the necessary small craft 24  hours earlier than we originally thought, when I put forward the  date by one day, which as you see has been of such wonderful and unforeseen consequence - though of course the putting it forward  was entirely in view of taking advantage of the weather, which we  know must necessarily get worse daily at this time of the year.
Will.  

also sent to Sir Ian Hamilton. This to me
WB
Evac of Anzac
Private
(To his Wife)
 