 Author: William Birdwood
Date: 18 August 1915
Nationality: Australian 

Text: My own darling little wife. We have still been having a lot of fighting all round the new bits of position I have taken from the enemy. The Turks evidently hated our taking the series of trenches of theirs which we called "Lone Pine" on my right  & you can imagine what the fighting has been like when I mention that we have in three days after taking it dragged over 1000 corpses out of the trenches - about half of them I am sorry to  say being our own men. The enemy never ceased attacking, but I fancy we have killed so many of them all round, & especially in rear by our Artillery that they have now chucked it, though they are sure to come on again later on. I have in this & oth just been through all the trenches & I must say the Turks had managed to make themselves pretty comfortable for they had such a lot of excellent head cover made of beautiful strong timber - a great deal of it recently cut pine trunks & branches, than which nothing could be more suitable & unfortunately we have nothing of this sort in our bit of country. On the left where we made our big move, we have too killed an enormous number of Turks & I must say they are plucky  fellows. Some of my guns are so placed that I could get right into them in enfilade at the back of their positions as they came up the hills to attack
and we got right into them in masses as they came along. A prisoner whom we have just got who was there says the corpses are so many it is hard to get over them and that they are laid in rows just like corn which has  been reaped! And yet they never stopped for a minute. You will remember Capt. Allanson who has just arrived in command of his Regt. the 6th Gurkhas. He did splendidly & has will been recommended for the V.C - I hope - I was talking to him yesterday just as he was going to hospital. He lead and his story nearly made me cry to realize how I had actually completed all we had to do, but failed at the last moment. He lead his Regt. in their night attack on the Turkish position which he actually took & they were chasing the Turks down the other side when suddenly one of our ships, not seeing who they were put some of their huge shells among them. Some of them blew some of the Gurkhas to pieces & made the rest for the time being absolutely panic stricken & they bolted down the hills like hairs & Allanson could not get them back. You may remember young de Marchand in 56th in Yuhat - he was attached to them & refused to leave the hill & was killed. That poor young Dallas boy was shot through the head & I hear can not be expected to live - in fact has probably died by now & Allanson was wounded, but not seriously.  And all we have fought for is gone, for since the Gurkhas left the Turks have been entrenching   like the devil & I shall have an awful job taking it again as I must do. The only small satisfaction is that when the Turks came down to attack the Gurkhas that night Allanson assures me they killed about 600 of them, which is in addition to the large numbers we have down elsewhere. Getting into so many of them you would think they must chuck  it ere long - Every prisoner tells us they are dead sick of it & are longing to surrender but are not allowed to and their numbers seem inexhaustable - they have I believe about 150,000 in this  Peninsula, which is of course far more than we have. I wouldn't change my men for any - they are just magnificent & I really am more than pleased & proud of them - they have quite   surprised one for I never hoped they would have come on as they have & I believe they have confidence in me. Going round all our new trenches up on the hill sides yesterday, they would say "Yes - Sir - we are quite ready to go on killing Turks whenever you call on us - but we are weak as cats & I don't think we could march a couple of miles" - That is the awful thing that really worries & frightens me. It is hard to believe how much the really enervating hot weather here has taken it out of the men - nearly all have been ailing from the usual eastern stomach complaints & this has taken it out of them more than one Could believe possible - Latterly, I have been sending off  200 men daily sick - today it has been 400 in addition  to about 150 wounded, so the drain becomes awful - of  course when the weather gets cooler, things will I hope  improve much, but in the meantime it makes me very  apprehensive about my next big move. I feel it myself -  we all do - fortunately (some can never be sufficiently grateful)  I have the strongest of insides & have kept well - also I have not  all the hard work - fatigues - carrying heavy loads - digging etc  which the men have, even then I often feel it is all I can  do to drag my legs after me when I have had a long   day in the trenches - but seeing & talking to the men  makes it well worth it. I enclose a very nice lett telegram Sir Ian has sent me which you may care to see  & keep. I feel very sorry for him as he must be very worried  & anxious at present about the uncertainty of the success  of his last move - It partly depended on me & I practically  did all that was possible - but to my left Genl Stopford's  Army was landed & much depended on him shoving on  & occupying an important position without delay - &  which I think he could & should have been able to do.  But he had all these new troops who don't yet  know how to fight - I have four Brigades & 6 Battalions after me at 
present in addition to my Army Corps - & didn't manage  to shove along anything like what was hoped & has given  the Turks time & opportunity to concentrate & dig which they  should never have had - Had he shoved along it would have  ensured my success & we would have been near the end here. In  my own mind I can't help blaming Sir I. to some extent, as  knowing Stopford to be rather old & slow, he should ( at least I  would) have taken much more personal charge & insisted on things   being done & really taken command which he has never yet done -Now that it is late he has removed from Stopford (who though a real  charming gentleman is not really up to it) & has put De Lisle in  to command. The latter is a real thruster- everyone hates him as  he is a brute, with no thoughts for others - rude to everyone &  has no principles, but I believe him to be the right man in  the right place, & by his brutality I hope he will see things  through - I hear that some of his material in the shape of  Territorials is very bad with no idea of fighting - What their officers can be like I have no idea, but they they simply have got  to be taught to fight & will lose heavily while doing so.  This is so very different from France where all are  merely pieces of a huge machine, with no chance of  exercising individuality or initiative. Here troops are   much more on their own & training comes in enormously I am afraid I am now losing Genl. Williams who is also going to Head Quarters, where as a matter of fact I think he will probably be better placed  than here, as he is perhaps just a little old for the hustle  and knocking about. generally all have to do with me here.  I am afraid poor old David Shaw has rather come to grief  at Aden. The Turks suddenly appeared & attacked there, & he  seems to have sent out an insufficiently equipped column in a  hurry who were to some extent overcome by the fearful heat &  retired hurriedly letting the Turks capture a good of what they possessed. Poor Shaw was sent back again to Karachi &  Genl. Younghusband sent tk to Aden from Egypt with his Brigade  & he is now commanding there & the Turks have retired from  the immediate vicinity.  Do you see that that that rather nice young Johnston girl is  engaged to Viscount Sidmouth who has I fancy been stationed in Lahore with his Lahore Territorial Regiment all  last winter- the Johnston family must be rather pleased!  Goodbye little lamb & all my love to you  Ever your very loving old, Will.
X I expect you will probably have  referred to Lou Onslow's death in   one of your letters after getting my  news? That letter I have not received.  