Author: William Birdwood
Date: 15 October 1915.
Rank: Field Marshall.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Head Quarters M.E.F. 15 October 1915.   My own darling Jenny Jane, Things have suddenly altered since I last wrote you a day or two ago - & I rather feel not for the better. I got a wire yesterday from Sir. Ian saying I was to come over to Imbros at once to see him on very urgent matters. I was as a matter of fact taking my first real quiet day in bed since I have been here, as my insides had suddenly gone wrong - nothing to worry about, but the Doctors told me that if I could lie still for 48 hours I should be absolutely right, while if I knocked about as usual I might get bad, so I thought at best to stay in bed to avoid the temptation of doing a lot! However of course I had to get up & come over  here at once, to find that poor old Sir Ian had been recalled and that a General Sir C. Monro has been appointed from France to succeed him - & that pending his arrival I was to take over the whole command here pending Monro's arrival. It is a great upheaval - Sir Ian goes today when I take over. I must say, I shall miss him very much as no one could have been kinder or more considerate to me than he always has been & he is such a dear good fellow & gentleman. He has too often been asked to do the  impossible here - whether these might not have been achieved
I will not say, but from the first the difficulties & strength of the Turkish army has evidently been under- estimated from home, and the final success aimed at has been impossible with the troops at our disposal- So it is hard lines that he should be sacrificed in this way - he is I must say most wonderfully good about it - No ranting & raving that it is someone else's fault etc. but just  saying that he has not been fortunate enough to succeed  & that there is an end to it - He of course must feel it very much, but shows it much less than I thought he would. Col. Pollen his A.M.S. takes this letter home with him & I can't say how good be has always been to me - and both say they so much want to see you when they get home so I hope it may be managed. He has made an A.1. Mil. Sec. always so thoughtful & courteous, and doing all he could for everyone, that I shall really miss him. He has quite loaded me up with things on going - a beautiful "Maud Allen" combined Cape & waterproof sheet - warm gloves - A very nice combined muffler & balaclava cap made for him by old Lady Muir - & several other things which he now finds he doesn't want, but which will be useful to me here in the winter. It is awfully nice of him, & I think he is one of the kindest hearted fellows I know. I only wish the new man would take him on in the same capacity as I know he would find
him so useful now that he knows all the troops  here & the general run of things.  Another man who goes is Genl. Braithwaite & for whom I am  also so sorry & he feels it much. He is certainly an able  man & has had a very difficult job to carry through. I'm  afraid he certainly has made himself unpopular - why I  don't quite know, but there is a general feeling against  him. A short time ago they wired from home to Sir Ian saying  they had heard this at home and asking if he didn't think it  would be best to send him home & get out someone else. Sir  Ian very loyal to Braithwaite refused to do this - had he   agreed I think he would doubtless have been left here   himself for another trial with a new Chief Staff Officer.  As it is they both go. Braithwaite will doubtless get some  other job at home or in France at once, & I do hope they give   Sir Ian something too.  Sir C. Monro comes out to a most difficult job which I   do not envy him, for without more troops & more ammunition  I do not think he can do anything at present, while it  will take him some little time to pick up all the threads  & grasp the whole situation - this hiatus in command is  I think unfortunate. In a week I can do nothing - in   fact it is not up to me to do so. I merely have to   carry on till Monro arrives & in the mean time have  some considerable responsibility without full knowledge,  as I really know nothing of the details or disposition of 
the troops beyond my own four Divisions & in case of any big  attack might be a little at sea. It is just possible that  the Turks might make this on the French, but I hope not during  my short regime - especially as I'd rather not have to run about  a lot till I am quite fit.  Curiously enough Byng is senior to me & I hope will not have been hurt  at my being put in to command over his head - however the direct  order came out from the Cabinet through Lord K. & after all it is  only for a short time. Sir Ian was awfully nice in saying that  he thought I should have succeeded him altogether & wondered that  this had not been done, but thought that possibly they did not  want to remove me from the Command of the Australians - & as  things are I must say I am quite happy that they I  should have been left with them.  Goodbye my little one. I do hope you will see Sir Ian &  Peter - & I only wish they were both staying on.  All my love to you always.  Ever your very loving old,  Will. 