
Author: William Birdwood    Date: 29 April 1915
Rank: Lieutenant
Nationality: Australian

Text: 
 
My own darling girl,
I wrote you last just as I was leaving
Mudros Bay on the Queen on 25th for our first
venture & already an age seems to have passed. You can
hardly imagine the scene & all our feelings. At
about Before starting we had taken on board 500 men
on each of our three battleships. At about midnight
we got opposite our rendezvous & stopped dead
while our men got out into boats in absolute
silence - a small pinnace taking a tow of about
six boats with 250 men. Behind each battle
ship came six destroyers in perfect silence
stealing along, with their decks crowded with
about 400 men on each & dragging tows behind.
When we got about 1000 yards from the shore
the pinnaces all shot forward with their tows
& we had to wait in expectancy the results
as the die was cast. It was now quite dark,
the moon having set, but unfortunately it was still
up when we were well in sight of land & our ships
were silhouetted against it. This however we
could not help as had we waited longer we
would have had to land in day light which I
particularly wished to avoid. We heard afterwards
from prisoners that they had seen us at 2, so
no surprise was possible. You can imagine my
anxiety as the boats disappeared in the dark
more especially as I realized they were not going
in quite the right direction, for instead of due East,
they all inclined to their left & landed me a 
good mile further North than I had intended -
but over this I had of course no control & could
do nothing. Why I had particularly wanted not
to go to the spot in which we were taken was
because it at once brought us into some
most difficult country in which I feared the
troops would be sure to lose themselves in the 
dark, and this is exactly what happened. But
at the same time I am not at all sure that
the hand of Providence did not directly 
guide them into a more sheltered place
than we would otherwise have had, and 
one which on account of its great difficulty
had perhaps not been so fully prepared
against us as others had been.
Straining our eyes through the darkness trying
to see if the boats had reached the shore
we could see nothing, but presently the cracks 
of musketry came along & we knew we could not
hope for a surprise. There was soon a regular
rattle of it, but of course the boats all pressed 
on & unloaded as fast as they could. I fear
they suffered heavily and in one boat alone
about 60 men were at once killed - a horrid thing
while there was no chance of doing anything
to defend oneself. The 1500 men from
the boats were followed at once by all those
from the destroyers so we had 4000 men
ashore in no time. They at once started straight
away to attack the huge difficult hill
before them & I really do not think there are
any troops in the world who could have done
it better or more bravely.  The whole place is 
covered with very thick scrub about 4ft high
with no paths through it - the hills are very steep
& there are many precipices. The men went straight
at everything & if possible went along with too much
dash for they took on more than we could manage,
dashing away to extreme spurs of the hills which
were much too extended to hold. The first 4000 were
of course followed immediately by more, & by about 8.30 I
had 12,000 men ashore. Before then however the
heavy guns had started pegging away at us 
probably from ships (possibly the Goeben's guns)
in the Dardanelles firing at us over the land,
and from the forts at the Narrows. Many 
of these plumped in alongside of us, but by
great good luck I don't think one 
ship was hit - at all events badly -
several had however to up anchor & beat
hasty retreats which somewhat confused our
arranged order of landing & lead to confusion
later. As I say the covering force dashed ahead
& was only natural lost itself to a very great 
extent. Each new lot of troops as it landed had
to be pushed off up the hills to where most
urgently wanted & consequently Brigades and Regts soon
got hopelessly broken up & no one knew where any
of their men were.  The Turks all this time were
fighting us like the Devil & we afterwards
discovered we were opposed by 3 Brigades - and
we found they had got trenches everywhere. 
These I had hardly expected in all the broken
hilly country - but we found them covering
everywhere, and from these they had to be &
were turned out - in fact they were hunted
all over the place. The whole time there was
a perfect pandemonium of noise - the whole fleet
pouring out broadsides and the enemie's shrapnel
bursting everywhere. This went on the whole day, though
the guns only came into action with the light. My
troops had as I say bitten off rather more than
we could chew & we had to withdraw somewhat to
take up a position we could hold. It was only then
I began to discover the awful trouble I was in for
owing to the men being so scattered & broken up. They
had done absolutely magnificently - nothing had
stopped them, and they had accomplished what
any army might well be proud of, by effecting their
landing in face of such opposition & then taking a
position which one would   ordinarily alone be a great
action.  It is for just such work that they are well 
suited for - viz - to be thrown into an action which
wants great dash & recklessness. But, then
they had shot their bolt and the most awful
reaction followed. Both my Divisional Generals
& senior Brigadiers came to me & said it was their  duty to represent to me that the men were
absolutely at their end, owing partly to the
fearful hard work they had gone through - their
very heavy losses - and the terrible strain
on their nerves from all the shrapnel fire to which we had been subjected - and they told
me they were convinced that if attacked they would
not be able to stand and that a most terrible
disaster threatened us. They asked me to wire to Sir
Ian H. putting the facts before him & saying I was 
consequently re-embarking my force, or it might
be a case of all having to go hands up!  An ordinary
retreat is difficult enough, but one including an 
embarkation would be too awful for words. I of course
refused to send such a wire & said in no case
could it be hands up as I'd fight to the last
even if it meant wiping us all out. I warned 
Sir Ian of the state the men were in, but
hoped for the best. What I really feared was the
enemy shelling us all night. We had had
no opportunity of any sort of digging in to
protect ourselves, so had naturally suffered much. The
men were mostly quite new to it, so naturally 
felt it very much.  Though the Turks
attacked more or less throughout the night
they luckily did not use their guns. You can
imagine however what an awful night I had of it.
It was very cold & raining a little, & of course I had
nothing but what I stood up in, though I found after that
that excellent little fellow Steward had carried a
blanket for me on his back. We only had one
narrow strip of beach for everything - time after 
time the shrapnel came on it & the confusion looked
awful, though it really was not so. What was
trying though, was the wounded. There were nearly
2000 of them - men being brought streaming in from all
sides & absolutely blocking the whole beach. All we could do was to have them dressed & sent
off in every boat which arrived, back to ships.
The regular hospital ship was very soon overcrowded
& then transports had to be filled up - once they
were away it was all right. But the
sight of all these men was inclined to try
the nerves of my soldiers - and it was here too that the splitting up of Regts came in, in trying the men.                                                                           
Almost before light I started out to go all round my firing lines & see what was to be done. I found the men already improving since the night before,  but whenever I came across a small clump of men & asked them their Regt, they would say "We 20 are all that are left of the 1st Bn. all the others have been cut up" - and this is what they thought. I of course chaffed them & told them that just across the valley there were another 500 all right & more elsewhere! This did a lot to cheer them up, and fortunately we hadn't a too hard day's fighting. The difficulties of the country which they had been so magnificently tackled with their dash, told against them however in such circumstances, when the regular soldier's discipline would have helped him - for in this dense country covered with nullahs, many men 