 Author: William Birdwood
Date: 4 August 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:

My own darling girl. We are just about to make another big advance, about which I have been busy for a long time & I do hope & think I have done all that can be done to ensure success. It is going to be a real big business - just as big as the day we landed and extraordinary difficult. I have to take an extremely difficult hill held by the Turks in great numbers, and I feel my only chance is by attacking them at the most difficult part where they will least expect us. It is a bit covered with deep ravines and precipices everywhere over which we must attack at night, so it will be a very high trial. Lots of men will  lose themselves, but will have to keep pressing on & will I hope find themselves again in the morning, and with real determination they will I hope succeed. If th we attempted this by day, the Turks who are on the hills above & have "interior lines", could easily move 20,000 men to face us anywhere, which would make success impossible. I have been given a Division & a half of Genl. Stepford's Army Corps in addition to my own Army Corps, so I have a stronger force, but the difficulty of the country really prevents me using one's full strength to best advantage. Stepford will be co-operating close by with the remainder of his Corps & I do pray we may meet with combined success. It will be a very big thing and much depends on it, as if we are as successful as I hope we should be in a position to jeopardise the safety of the whole Turkish Army here, far more than we have ever done before. It is a great gamble,
and it will be awful if we don't succeed as weather is so important to us here, & one can not depend on its' remaining fine very much longer. I have been landing troops here steadily for some nights past & I am glad to say so far in safety. The Turks gave us a tremendous shelling the afternoon before we began & then luckily stopped after dark - in the middle of the night they began again for a short time, but luckily just when troops  were not being landed. It is a very high trial for new troops straight from home to find themselves being heavily bombarded while landing in a strange country in the night. As it was I fear a few of them were hit by stray bullets which go over our heads all night & strike right out to sea. It is the first we have  seen of the new Kitchener army & I must say they seem quite a nice lot of men but of course they & most of their officers must be very "green" & this is more trying over the mountainous country where troops have to act independently & do much on their own initiative, than I fancy it can be in France where all are shoved into trenches shoulder to shoulder, and fighting must be more mechanical. I do hope these boys will rise to it & my men's example will help them a lot. I find I now have 23 Generals under me, so we are a big swarm of them! Genl. Williams has I am glad to say just arrived from India & I am delighted to have him with us, as he is such an excellent stinking fellow in every way, and will I know always be a great stand by in times of stress when we are in despair about water! Just got your last letter little one of 20 July & very glad to get it too. but I am so distressed to know that you are not yet sleeping really well. I can't think what it can be, for I am sure you ought to be right now & I pray every night (Have for long done so) that you may sleep well & happily - and I am sure you will. I was very glad to see Nancy's letter from Mansfield where she evidently seems not only happy enough but to have lots to do, which is quite right. She seems to have any number of friends in the  neighbourhood & I quite foresee her difficulty will be in getting through her work if they are all wanting her to go & see them. It seems rather hard lines that the people round should not ask the Australian nurses to tea etc. regularly in turn with the men, & I pray they will. You write about investments. I think I have already told you fully what to do about them in letters which have crossed. Briefly, I think what you should do is to put every penny you can save into the War tr loan month by month - just having enough balance in the Bank to carry you on until the next month's pay arrives -you will always know about what you will want in this way from month to month. I am taking it for granted that you can still go on putting money into this War loan after 10th May, which but some of the papers rather lead one to suppose that it would be closed then. Mr Waters will of course arrange for the National Bank of India to    draw the dividends for you on everything as usual.   I'm so glad your Father is allowing her to drive the car again,   but I can well believe how extraordinary difficult it must be   for her to manage at all, with him beside her all that   traffic & your dear old Father anxious beside her! Later.   I have just been round all Cox's Bde who arrived this morning - Up to  now we have managed to get all the new troops ashore during the night   & so have avoided them being shelled.  Unfortunately something must  have gone wrong in the Naval arrangements last night, as by 4.a.m   there were still a good many troops to land, and as soon as even the   Turks saw them they at once began shelling them - we were however   lucky.  I saw a shell burst over a houseboat full of Gurkhas just   as they were leaving, but not a man was touched.  By bad luck though  I had my Naval Staff Officer here killed yesterday afternoon on the pier - a  very nice keen young fellow by name Cater, who I had just had dining   with me the night before - the same shell went through the boiler of one  of the picket boats - the second I have had sunk in the last two   days.  But water is my greatest anxiety & a very grave one.  I only have   just enough to fill the men's water bottles and am not quite sure if I'll even have   that tonight, when I have to start our big fight. Shells have hit water ships   & sunk water lighters - pumps have broken etc. etc. others keep coming to me  with most doleful faces & prophesies of dire water disaster! However   all we can do is to take advantage of every moment. We have to pump   whenever we can get a water boat near the shore & to eke out   what little we can from our fast drying up wells.    So much depends on this big fight which will be starting   in a few hours time.  The difficulties of the country are enormous & it is just those very great difficulties  which I am hoping may prove our best friends. If the   country was in any way easier, it would be a mass of   trenches everywhere. As it is, on all other sides of my   position - the one side remaining is almost precipitous in  places & covered with thick jungle & vines. I commence  by making a big attack from my right on the Turkish trenches  & then swinging my left round through all this difficult  country during the input, while I'll have a tremendous bombardment   of all my guns all round going on the while  night. So there will be a perfect babel. I fear I must  expect a large number of casualties & it will be a most  awful business getting them all down to the beach & off. It   will be a long & very anxious time for me as communications   will be terribly hard & I shall hear heavy fighting on every  side while shells will probably be flying around for hours.  If we succeed as I earnestly pray we may, it should be  a real good business - if I can get the Turks once well on  the run I hope we may capture a lot of their guns, camps  etc & in fact do a real big strike - but it is a great  gamble - if all goes well I have every hope it may  come off - if they go wrong we would lose a large  number of men and find ourselves in a very much  worse position than we now are. However I have told my 
boys I feel confident that any one of them are the equal  of 10 Turks & they only have to a make up their minds to  succeed at all costs & we shall be through. It doesn't mean  anything very great in distance, but it does in importance -   will be a much bigger fight than the day we landed.  We have been much hoping for the Turks to attack us first, as  they at one time intended doing, but unfortunately they  couldn't be brought up to the necessary point.  With all my love sweetheart. Ever your very loving old,  Will.
 P.S. A terrible disaster has just happened - a   lighter with 400 bags of English mail has   just been sunk when coming in for us!!  Goodness knows what letters it may or may  not have had on board, so if you can  remember anything important you may just  have written, better repeat it! 