Author: William Birdwood
Location: France Date: 24 September 1916
Nationality: Australian

Text:
 Dear Dad
We have a fine position here, so quiet & peaceful that it is hard to immagine that there is a war on at all.  Here the line is just being held, & a few raids carried out on the German lines,  an air fight occasionally, & a few shells from us but only a very few from Fritz. We are in supports, & our posi is in a wood, where we have some very comfy dugouts. I share a good one with the R.S.M, & it is a place about 12 x 14' inside, wooden floor canvas bunks,  nice little brick fireplace, two desks & stools,  pictures on the walls, two glazed windows & what is more marvelous, a sixpanelled pitch pine moulded door, varnished.  There is 3.6 of sand bags all round & on the roof, & the inside walls are lined with hessian. When, on a cold night we get a coke fire going, & the door closed, we are very comfortable. I have the pioneers constructing new dugouts while we are here, - the b'n is on fatigues for the front
line. Being under & surrounded by trees we can move about pretty freely:  behind the position there is a fairly large cemetary, filled with white crosses, dating back to the early days of the war. We have been here 4 days now, & not a shell or bullet has come anywhere near us.  The Hun has left  this line very thin as far as artillery goes. I am sorry that your operations were not a success - will you have to undergo still more The weather for the past two days has been glorious, & the rain has held of nicely, allowing the mud, which was very thick, to dry up somewhat.  There are some  very marshy patches arround here, & where much traffic goes, duck walks have to be laid down. Have I addressed the envelope correctly?  I was not sure of your writing.  I have just heard that another Zepp has been brought down in London.  Hurrah! - these raids will become to expensive for them soon! We have them bluffed everywhere! Please give my Love to Mother & Chickie, same to yourself From Yr Affectionate  Son, Willy