Author: Cecil F Thursby
Date: 23 June 1917
Nationality: British

Text:

23-6-1917. 
H.MS. Triad   My dear Birdwood I must write you a line to congratulate you  on your K.C.B. a very tardy and inadequate  reward for all your splendid services and recognition of the magnificent fighting done by the Anzac’s under your command _ All your old friends out here are delighted and none more so than myself  and I hope there are many more honors to come to you. I see at present there is rather a lull in the fighting on your front but I gather it is only the calm before the storm and that it wont be long before you are ready for another advance. Out here we have practically handed every thing over to the French. They are now supreme in Greece and are talking & writing as if they had occupied an Enemy's country after a Glorious Campaign - As far as we are concerned we go on much as usual except that this Enemy is getting more aggressive - They have mounted large guns all round their coast, are laying mines off all
their own ports as well as off our bases and have largely increased their air craft. We are always  busy and have a small scrap some where nearly every day Submarines have increased also & seem to pop up nearly every where - I am sorry to say they got one of my Japanese Destroyers the other day killing 55 of her crew - Personally I seem to be going down hill just now as Wemyss has been appointed over my head to be  C in. C Mediterranean so I dont suppose they will keep me out here much longer as we  are both about the same seniority  and I am afraid that with the present board there is’nt much likelihood of my getting another  command - However I cannot complain as I have had my flag flying ever since the war began. The hot weather is just beginning now and the Fever season set in which means that all our operations on the Salonica front must  stop for the present  but I hope in the Autumn the Russians & Roumanians may be able to do some thing & enable us to get in again - My  kindest remembrances to all old Anzac  friends  _ Yours very sincerely, Cecil. F. Thursby.