Author: William Birdwood
Date: 21 November 1915.
Rank: Field Marshall.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:



21 November 1915.  H.M.S. LORD NELSON.
 My own darling Jenny Jane,  There is a real slump in  the letter line & the last I have had  from you is dated 14 Oct - & now we  have just heard that one of the  wretched German submarines has  sunk one of our ships between here  & Egypt, & that 2000 bags of mails  have gone down in her, so goodness  knows what may not have been  lost.  It is most annoying - one  wouldn't mind so much if you  could tell what had gone!  I am  again beginning a letter from Mudros
as Lord K. after spending a day at  Salonika came back here  & sent for me.  This knocking about in  destroyers is rather trying - In fine   weather I don't mind it, but in  rough one has an awful time of it  as they never go less that 20 knots : &  I have been in so many of them now- Colne,  Chelmer - Ure - Usk - Ribble- Pincher-  Bulldog - Beagle - Rattlesnake - Mosquito -  Scourge - Lawford  & Laforey : the last 2  burn oil & go about 25 knots. The only  real bad journey I had was from here to  Mudros on Ribble. The saloons are  absolutely impossible - horrid close  little places, with tiny scuttles always  shut & smelling! The moment one gets  below one is done for in anything like  bad weather - & the whole ship always  shakes fearfully. On deck it is all right if not rough, but if rough  all the waves come over, so the bridge  is the only possible spot - that is very  high up, but even then one gets waves  constantly dashing all over it as was  the case last week. I tried to go over to  Anzac the following day, but found the   storm had done so much damage in  the way of breaking up piers & boats  that landing was not possible - a most  serious outlook with stores, guns  troops etc constantly to be landed &  embarked. I must say I do hate  being away from there & not having  my own men round me daily. They   tell me a lot of very heavy shelling  has been going on on my beach &  H.Q. Since I have been away these  few days & I hope they haven't had
many casualties. Lord K was  a day in Salonika & then came  back here & wired for me to  come & see him again - He only  stayed here a day & then went off  down to Athens where he is to have  an interview today with that  wretched King Tino. I only hope  he may be able to frighten him  properly. The King's idea is I  am sure to remain nominally  neutral until a German Army  arrives on the Greek Frontier & he  will then be able to throw the cloak   aside & join in against us. I hope  therefore that we may be able to  take really strong measures at once
which we can do with our fleet, for we could sink the whole  Greek fleet at once & blockade the coast & take all their islands. I  believe they have not a week's supply of food in the country, so a  blockade might bring about a revolution and with Venizelos in again  they might decide to join us. The next day or so should let us see  more, & Lord K. will probably return here at once after his interview with  Tino - I am awfully sorry for poor old Admiral de Robeck in all this, as  he is such an awfully nice fellow, & has been so fearfully bothered with   all his anxieties & responsibility that he hardly sleeps at all & I fear gets   more worried daily. I have been out for a couple of rides with him here  which te we have both thoroughly enjoyed. The Cabinet have not at all  decided yet what is to be the future of this force & I shall not be surprised  at any orders I may get. I only know that we are bound to have a hard  & difficult time of it whatever may be decided. There was one rather  attractive proposal made by which I was to have taken most of this  force to cut the whole of the Turkish communications, but that has  now been definitely abandoned. It has been nice seeing McMahon &  Maxwell again & both have been very nice. I quite forget if I told  you much about Lord K. I was so awfully glad to see him again  & I think he really was pleased to have me with him again. We  almost at once seemed to drop back into our old lines & the years  I have been away from him might all have rolled away.  Fitz too is so very nice & quite unchanged - he does K very well  indeed - much better than I had thought he would. Storr  too was with him - a very good fellow, to whom you can always  write if you want to know anything. I have given him a box  to send you, which I believe contains a practically priceless
relic which has just been sent me as a present by Admiral  Sir Hedworth (Lambton) Meux. Why he should have thought  of sending it me I can't think as I hardly know him. The  Commodore here - Keyes - who has just been home brought this back  with him. The rich old Lady Meux apparently had a very valuable  collection of greenstone among which was this Maori totem - you  will see it is not beautiful & you will see there is a short typed  account of it, which please don't lose. There is I hear however  much more in the historical interest of the totem then appears  in the account & Keyes tells me it is really "priceless" on  account of its historical traditions and mystical Maori associations.  So I thought it best to send straight home for you to keep. Sir  Hedworth I suppose sent it me as the Maori contingent is  under me & I must say I think it was rather nice of him  to have thought of such a thing. You remember seeing him at  Delhi don't you?  I shall now be having a much more civilized life of it than  at Anzac, for at Imbros I have a small two roomed wood  hut - which can be very cold!! It is colder there I think a good  deal than at Anzac. Also there is a regular mess there, in  which I'll have to have regular meals I fear instead of  going through my trenches all day - so please stop Harrod's  sending any more fruit at all - it would only go into the  mess where they already have stores etc. I do so hate the  idea of leaving my old family circle - there, there was no room
in our dug outs for a regular mess, so I always had breakfast  & tea alone, & one of them always took it in turn to come to dinner, when we  had your tinned fruits - now however it will all  be different- & I shall not  want them. The only ones I can take of my old staff are the 2 A.D.C's  de Crespigny & Chirnside. The former has been in hospital in Egypt for the  last month - while Chirnside though a really nice fellow & I am sure most   faithfully loyal to & fond of me, as an A.D.C. or companion is quite useless.  If we ever get to a country where motors can be used, he will however be  invaluable with his beautiful Rolls-Royce car - on account of which he  was picked out as my Australian A.D.C ! I hope however that when Genl  Skeen is well enough again to come out- to me that he will come to me  as I have replaced him at Anzac & have kept a vacancy for him at H.Q.  Also I am asking for Pollen as my A.M.S. & it will be nice having him  with me. Then too I mean to go over to Anzac as often as I possibly  can to see the Australians & enter into all their work, & I hope keep in  touch with them as I always have done. This though will be difficult  as I now have 2 other wives in the Army Corps at Suvla & Helles -  a concubine in the shape of an enormous base of about 20,000 men  to be looked after also ! At Suvla is Genl. Byng with 5 Divisions  which I have got to get to know & at Helles is Genl Davies with 4  and there are 2 French Divisions there as well. I shall have to do  them all in time, so I can't hope to see very much of any of them,  especially in all this bad weather, for days at a time are very  likely to pass without it's being possible to land anywhere.  I have just got your letter of 23rd Oct & feel so annoyed because  apparently you can't have received several of my letters & I am wondering  if it is worth while my writing so many long letters as I do  (generally having to sit up past mid-night to do so) if you don't get them.
All yours I think I have got - But do you hear from me about once  a week? If mail from here does not go on any regular day- just  when ships happen to be going, and one military goes every week - then too  some take much longer than others going via Egypt or Malta - But you  certainly should have heard every week & I hope have done so - But certainly  more than once - two or three times - I have told you the parcels sent  by Harrod's have arrived & not long ago I told you they sometimes  were so badly packed. I told you all about what I thought about  that £500 for Chris from Mrs Ritter - viz. that it must have been left  by Major Wright - more than once I have said to invest all savings in  War Loan as I think that is the only right & patriotic thing to do.  It may be that letters I wrote about all these may have arrived  just after you sent off your last letter- that is so annoying - not  knowing if letters have crossed or not. As test cases do please  when answering this tell me if you have got my letters telling  you about all above - and one particularly asking you to let me  know if an account in the bank had been credited with about  £52 from the India office - & has this been done ? It will  I know since have been credited either last or this month with  about £335 , as the Pay master told me he had done this.  Also did you get my letter about your birthday? You said  you hadn't when you wrote on 30th Sept. Also did you  get one giving you Isabel's address at Chepstow? Will you  please let me know of you have got letters about all these
and I'll be much happier in my mind - otherwise I feel I   must stop writing long letters, as there is no knowing into whose  hands they may not fall. We have had bad luck here, as we  have just got news of a German Submarine having sunk one of our  ships with 2000 bags of mail - & now one of our tugs with a large  number of outgoing bags for home has been sunk in the storm we  have had these last few days. I don't think any of my letters were in it  as I was away from Anzac. I hope you got my telegram with a message  for the men's Xmas Cards. It is hard to condense into a line, so I hope you may have improved on it in the wording. Also I sent off another wire saying New Zealanders must be included, as otherwise they will feel very hurt. As it is I think they are inclined to feel they are rather neglected, which is perhaps only natural, as they are only about ¼ of the Australian numbers. The word "Australian" is often used to include them both - which annoys the N.Z's very much, for they are awfully jealous of each other! Mr Mackenzie the N.Z. High Commissioner will of course be able to tell you all about them & I much hope you will get him to take you down to see their hospital at Walton on Thames some day - he will be delighted if you ask him to do this & proud to take you!  I think there is nothing to be done about those parcels you asked me about - I mean there is no one on my Staff here to whom you can address them & though it may take time sending them to the Ebury St depot, I fancy that as a Central place is better in  the long run - more confusion is caused by being sent independently & no one here would know anything about them on arrival. As a matter of fact so far we have I think had what we want.
Did I tell you I expected more or less of a fight with K when he arrived on my refusing to agree to go in for some big plans he had wired to me to undertake? I was delighted that he quite dropped them & told me just before he left for Athens, that he now quite saw they were out of the question. This should I hope reach you just about Xmas so I write to wish you a very happy one - though I fear none can be very bright at home this year - but I hope you will have all the children with you & one has to make things as happy for them as possible, as I know you all will. Remember to countermand the tins of fruit for me. The stoves haven't yet arrived, & I'll let you know when they do so. I don't think there is any necessity for you to be in London to be on committees etc. You see I am not in Chief Command now out here. Monro is - & his wife will have to take Lady Hamilton's place. Also I always think there are often rather too many people on many committees, with the result that little is done. What you want are very small working committees, while people seem very  fond of having plenty of hands shown as being on them!  I am so very glad though that you have been active as you have on the Australian one & do remember not in any way to seem to neglect the New Zealanders. Mackenzie is a very nice & modest fellow who will be very gratified at any interest you may be able to take in his men,  - write to him if necessary about anything. Goodbye my own little wife. I shall be thinking of you very much at Christmas & all my love to you Ever your very loving old, Will. 