Author: William Birdwood
Date: 27 December 1915.
Location: Imbros
Rank: Field Marshall.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:


Imbros 27 December 1915
My own darling girl. I'm beginning to rather wonder if I am standing on my head or my heels, as I've had so many orders to contrary effects. A few days ago, it was an order to go to Egypt tomorrow - then to Mudros - then to stay here - now I have to go over there for the day tomorrow to see Genl. Monro - & I suppose come back here - but goodness knows - & it is very annoying. But I only let such things annoy me when I am feeling at all low, as I I think I do at present - the after effects I suppose of this evacuation, for even though it could not possibly have been more successful, yet the whole idea of having come away without getting through gives me the feeling of failure - my head too keeps bothering a certain amount - I suppose I ought to have had it looked to before, but until the evacuation was over I didn't feel I could afford to lay up a day or two quietly which having it opened up might involve. Now the Doctor has to keep digging at it & opening it daily which is a bore, but he assures me it will be quite right in a day or so, & I am sure it will. By this time, I hope the old Peacocks have heard of or from their son.  His Regt is here now,  on the withdrawal from Suvla, so I went up to see it one day & at once asked after the boy. I was at first
told he was there all right, so I sent for him to come & see me. The next day however word was sent me that it was another man of the same name who was here, but that their son, had been wounded some little time ago & sent off. I gathered it was not at all bad, just a bullet wound in the leg, but once a man is sent off like that it is quite impossible for us here to tell where he has gone to - he may be in Egypt, Malta or England, but I hope the old Peacock's have heard of their son, & will you tell them how sorry I am not to have seen him & how sorry too to know he is wounded, but that I hope he is well again now. Rather a curious thing happened the other day, dear old Lotbiniere asked me if I would exchange sticks with him as he would much value & like to keep the one I had used in my daily visits around the Anzac trenches. Looking at it he discovered a bullet had gone into it & turned a bit, & was still sticking in it! I remember one day thinking it had been hit when I was going round, but never bothered to look at it, & it's strange the bullet should have remained in it! We had a capital bonfire concert for the men in this camp on Christmas Day - & I must say I was much touched at the end of it by some
one - I think it was Churchill - Winstons' brother  who is my Camp Commandant here - getting up at the end & shouting "Three cheers for Sir William Birdwood of Anzac". I thought the men would never stop - they went on cheering till they were tirr tired - & none of my own Australians were with them either, as I'm sorry to say they are all over at Mudros. These were all British soldiers - Yeomanry, Engineers etc, & I felt it was so nice of them. By the bye, do tell me if you ever got some rather nice water colour pictures of Anzac I sent you a long time ago? As a matter of fact, Wagstaff got them for me & sent them off, & he has asked more than once if you ever got them? Also did you ever order the pair of bedroom slippers for me? I've never got them or heard of them,  & remember I always acknowledge everything, so if you don't hear of my getting anything you have sent you will know I haven't received it - though letters often go astray & again I haven't heard from you for a long time now - the posts are awful. Do tell me if that sum of £ 50 odd has been credited to our account at the Bank as I  am having some worries with the Pay people 
& I must settle about that, unless you can tell me it 
has been credited all right - do try and remember this. I hear Genl. Skeen is down at Salcombe & now all right again so I am much hoping to get him back  soon, though Aspinall has been doing the work for me  very well. Genl. Monro & all his staff are now off to Egypt, leaving me here to run the show - & before me I have just got orders to carry out what will be far more difficult than evacuating Anzac & Suvla - however I'm trying to do it all right - provided always the weather is good - bad storms & anything may happen, but I rely on Providence to see us safely through again. Goodbye my own little lamb & all my love to you. Ever your very loving old, Will.
My head is nearly all right again, but the Doctor  still has to open it out every day which is  trying, but he says it is healing now nicely.
