Author: William Birdwood
Date: 19 December 1915.
Location: Dardanelles
Rank: Field Marshall.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:


Dardanelles Army  19 December 1915    My own darling girl. I've just been so glad to get your letter of 30th Nov. by King's Messenger and sent on by Sir Ian - I fancy if you send these to Fitz or Major Storr direct to the War Office they will always send them on, without your having to bother Sir Ian - Talking of Maj. Storr, have you got the N. Zealand "tiki" I sent home to you by him? That nice Capt. Lloyd has just come back & tells me you saw them both - You never told me about it & isn't he a nice fellow? Apparently his wife sees a good deal of Queen Alexandra to whom she was a Maid of Honour. He was telling me that when he was at home now, dear old Sir Dighton was holding forth so much about me, that eventually the old Queen broke out with "Is there no one else in the world but Genl. B, that you can talk of no one else" - or something of that sort! I still haven't got any of your back letters which have missed, so I haven't an idea yet if you have yet got my replies to all the questions you wanted- I do hope so?  What does Chris mean in his letter by saying "Nanny  will be a load off your mind"? Has she left you  or what has happened? You have never mentioned any  thing about her - but I see you talk of a Madamoiselle 
with Judith. Have you taken her on regularly in Nanny's place? I do feel so sorry for the latter as it seems so hard to know what to do for her or with her. What is Mabel doing? Has she come back to your Father?  N The two plum cakes have arrived all right & have been very welcome in the mess where we of course share everything & all your tinned fruit etc are sent there. I see you mention milk too - have you sent any? For none has ever arrived here - but in any case little one, (if you haven't already done so) have these things stopped now as we do not want them here. Things can be got at the canteen, so do not order anything from Fortnum & Mason - or if you have ordered anything, countermand it - Where I shall be 10 days hence I have no idea, but  when & if I can only complete this terrible evacuation, successfully, I shall not be at all surprised if I am not ordered to take my whole Army down to Egypt where we may  come in for some big fighting a short time hence.  Here I have a nice- little wooden hut to sleep in  which was built for Sir Ian. I am so glad Genl. Monro  did not decide to come here, but he has remained at  Mudros. Today I have been over at Suvla seeing Genl.  Byng & seeing to things there for the last time -  Tonight I spend on a Destroyer off the coast  watching to see if anything happens during the 
penultimate night of our departure. Tomorrow I go to Anzac for a final look round of the position & trenches of which I have been so proud & for which I have so much lived during all these last months. I really feel like abandoning a child in leaving there, & it makes me nearly cry! You can't believe what really wonderful work has been put into that place - almost an underground city in which my men could hold out against anything & defy the world!  But the same does not apply everywhere & in Suvla (where the ground is very different) could not hold out against the heavy Austrian & German Artillery which we have every reason to suppose will shortly be brought against it, then the Germans could bring guns into the rear of Anzac & cut us off from the sea. However it is all very sad & it seems such irony that I am to be the man to carry it out. After the day at Anzac I shall be spending the night on the cruiser "Chatham" - for that is going to be the real time of anxiety - We may have an awful time of it - as bad as any army has ever had, for we shall be carrying out one of the most difficult operations in warfare - Sir John Moore at Corunna over again, but a far bigger job  than he ever had to tackle - But I am confident 
that things will go well - Providence has helped us so far & I have every trust that we shall be helped to the end. Tonight is calm - If it will remain so till Monday morning we shall all be off & any anxieties over - A big blow between now & then, & I shudder to contemplate the possibilities. We have got to work hard too those two nights to get off 20,000 men each night as we must do - remember no harbour or proper piers - just the little things we have been able to rig up ourselves, alongside which big ships can not of course go anywhere near. When it is all over, I feel I shall have a momentary collapse - but for not more than 5 minutes as there will still be lots more to be done. I will still have a Corps at Helles, & I may have to stop & look after it, but I rather think I'll have to get off at once to Egypt & organize the defence there. I'm so glad Lady Robinson is so nice to you, little one, as she seems such a very nice woman. I didn't know they were not Australians & I too wonder how he became A.G. for Queensland. I expect he has been a big contractor who has dealt largely with the Colony (possibly in xxxxx meat) & they have taken him on look after their interests. 
As a contractor he has probably made piles. I wonder what happens to the Reids? To my great regret he ceases to be H.C. for Australia in January. I wrote to the Governor General asking if he couldn't be kept on till the end of the war, but they wouldn't have it & he has to go. All these things are very political in Australia & I fancy the present Premier wanted the billet & some one she wanted to be Premier, so Sir George had to move on, on finishing his extended time - He is not a rich man & I suppose may have to return to Australia to the Bar, but he is getting old now & one feels sorry for him having to do so - He offered to stay on with out pay if they would keep him - at present I think he gets £5000 a year. Tell Mrs. Moncrieff  or Lady H. when you next see them that I still have their nephew young McGrigor as A.D.C in place  of de Crespigny who has been sick now in Egypt for over 2 months. I took McGrigor over from Sir Ian. I find him such a very nice young fellow, who looks after me so  capitally & runs our mess for us splendidly. He was out in Calcutta in the Muir's firm when this broke out, but went home & then came out here in the Gloucester Yeomanry. I fear I shan't be able to keep him after de Crespigny rejoins but I'll be 
very sorry to lose him. I was very glad to see your Australian card, which is I think excellent - I can't say though that I think welly much of my signature on it!! I always write with a broad pen & never put a little wiggling line under my name, but a good bold stroke!! I enclose one I have just scribbled off! Not that you are likely to want it again - I'm so glad too you have fixed up something for the N.Z's - it would never have done to leave them out, but £30 seems an enormous sum to pay for such a thing, doesn't it? The original card is however too Australian to do for both, though if you'd only thought of it in time, it would have been ever so much nicer in every way to have had the one card for both. It would have wanted the N.Z. fern leaves on the outside cover - the first 3 messages are all right as they stand - you'd have had to get one from the N.Z Defence Minister to correspond to Pearce's message & you'd have had to get Sir Ian to 
include N.Z's in his message - and to have had a second picture included - or N.Z shown as well as Australia with a girl on each! However it is too late for that & I hope Mrs. Mackenzie will have been able to fix up something for you all right. What a little monkey Judith must be getting & how I'd just love to see you & her again - but I don't see when it is going to be - this is going to drag on for a long time yet & we have to go on with it whatever happens until the Germans are absolutely beat - it is the only thing to do & I trust I may keep fit. I'm extraordinary so keen to see it through to the end. Can't Chris get on a bit with his French with Madamoiselle during the holidays? I do wish he could do a bit every day, for I saw his last report was very poor as regards French & it is so important - Judith really should get a decent start at her age & I hope may learn to talk well. I'm so sorry poor Kath still has indy, as I thought she had quite got over it. Robin is I suppose still at Bushire - I wrote him a long letter from Egypt soon after Nancy left them but have never had a line from him & only heard he was in Persia quite by chance. I daresay he thinks I should have brought him out on my staff & I should much have liked to do so, but it wasn't possible. I'm glad you have seen something of Mrs. Cliff as though I know 
What you mean about her, yet, I think she is really a nice woman & I like him very much. Cliff told me he had bought that house for her just before he came out here - lucky to be able to do it, but I don't  know that it is a thing I'd have done myself at such a time! Did I tell you I now have Col McMunn on my staff as Adjt & Quartermaster General and very well he does too, for he is certainly very able & has tact - he is a very nice fellow too.
Goodbye my own little wife & all my love to you 
Ever your very loving old,
Will