
Author: William Birdwood
Date: 24 April 1915
Rank: Lieutenant
Nationality: Australian.

Text: 

My own darling wife.
I find I can write just one more line before we
sail though I doubt if I can get it posted at once. I have
now transferred to "Queen" & am sailing with Admiral Thursby
directly - all as you can imagine full of excitement - and
a truly wonderful scene it is here. Mudros Bay is a 
beautiful harbour and just crammed full of large
transports - great battle ships - cruisers - destroyers - torpedo
and boats - submarines etc. A lovely sea plane has been
flying all round & over us for several hours testing her
wireless - and now the great transports have begun to move
quietly down & out of the harbour in turn - we follow at
12 and all meet at a rendez-vous behind the Island of
Imbros before attacking. As the transports come down,
such as have bands on board play them & the men all
cheer & get counter cheers as they pass the battle ships
& cruisers - Such fine fellows they all look as they
crowd the sides & all just as keen as possible on starting
fighting. It really makes a lump come in my throat as I
watch them return their salutes to think of how many
of them must fall almost at once - and how much too
good so many of them seem to be cut off now - for I
fear we are almost bound to lose heavily. Oh! for a cloudy
night tonight - last night was exactly what I should have
liked - and a dull morning, to let me get my ships along
close to the shore unobserved & then no sun in our eyes as we
land & have to do our firing early tomorrow morning. What a
din & noise there will be with our ships [[?]] coming in
broadsides & enemies shells coming along to us in return
for we must stand very close in. Five hundred of my men
come on board each of these battleships & we will all get a
good hot meal about mid night which will last a long time.
Then when we get quite close to the shore the ships boats
which will all have been filled as we steam slowly along
to within half a mile, will shoot ahead towed by 
picquet boats & I hope row men ashore in silence, though
it is of course too good to hope we can do this unobserved,
though I am hopeful I may get enough ashore to rush
up & seize some high ground before the enemy have
tumbled to it & been able to reinforce their posts there.
The Admiral very kindly gave me his cabin last night & I felt I
was having my last comfortable night for a very long time to come (though
 I have got no pyjamas with me) - and I have made the most of
 a decent hot bath, as I see precious little chance of any
bed, bedding & change or bath for a very long time to come! We simply
can land nothing & I am most anxious as to the feeding of the troops -
however I'll manage somehow. I was rather touched on leaving 
the "Minnewaska" to come on board here, someone shouting out
"Three cheers for our General"- and all the men rushing to the side
to carry it on & cheer heartily. They certainly are a good
uncomplaining lot & I do trust they will come through things
well, for they have much fighting & nood hard ship before them all.
Poor Onslow had a nasty go of neuralgia the last few days & yesterday
I had to say he must remain on board with the horses to join me
later when we get a chance of landing them & that I would take
John McConaghy ashore instead. The result was wonderful and
in half an hour Onslow had quite recovered & is now with
me. I have made him get a few hard boiled eggs & dried figs
(the latter grown on the island) for us which my servant, steward
will carry which will be a very welcome addition to our  
bully beef & biscuits.
The post is just off so I must close.
Goodbye my own sweet wife. All my love.
Ever your very loving old, 
Will.