Author: William Birdwood
Date: 15 January 1916
Location: Salonika
Rank: Field Marshall.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:



H.M.S. Lord Nelson. Salonika.  15 January 1916.  My own darling Jenny Jane. Still no letters of any sort & as I wrote last, I have had nothing since 30th November!! I can only hope & imagine that I shall find a whole sack full of letters awaiting me when I get down to Egypt. Having received no orders about myself & as all my troops were being got off I have run over here with dear old Admiral de Robeck, as I thought I might just as well see our position here while in these parts, as one never knows if I may or may not have to come up here again - but I doubt it. Now I have got my orders which are that my Dardanelles Army of 3 Army Corps which I have had since Sir Ian left is now to be broken up & merged into one Army in Egypt & I go back to my Australian Army Corps. I shall be absolutely happy with this & quite glad to be back with them all again. They have all   gone on ahead of me to Egypt & I shall find them all there.   I am only sorry for poor General Godley whom I shall have to   displace & he will have to revert to the command of his   Division - he is such a good fellow that I am quite   sorry to have to do this - but so many more Australian   troops are coming over that I daresay I'll be able   to have an Australian Army before long in which   case he can have a Corps again. I don't quite   know where we will be in Egypt, but I rather
fancy my Corps will be at Tel-el Kabir, and I shall   be glad to be out of Cairo. I gather I'll be directly   under General Murray who has taken Munro's place. I rather think Lord K. would have liked me to continue to command my Army, but that they had to find a place for Murray on his being relieved as Chief   General Staff at the War Office. It is a wonderful place this & I'm glad to have seen it. I have brought Col. Wagstaff here with me & General Mahon who is commanding here has been riding round the position with us - it is a very strong one & I should love to see it being attacked as we ought to account for many Germans! After Anzac the town itself seems palatial & it is quite strange to find a General living in a comfortable furnished house! The town looks really pretty from the sea, running up as it does from the shore all up the side of a big hill finishing up with old city walls all round and an old castle on top. On close acquaintance though it of course appears very squalid - a few large well kept roads well lighted & with electric trams - but directly you leave there you get to the miserable  badly kept lanes just like an Indian village. We went & saw a rather fine Greek Church - which 
had I believe originally been built as a   Christian Church in the time of the Byzantine Empire.   Then when the Turks came, it was converted into a  Mosque & so remained until the Greeks took Salonica  from the Turks 3 years ago & it is now again a Church -  & a fine one with a lovely huge dome. The Turks had  whitewashed over all the old mosaics,  but these are now being recovered. The Greeks though are a miserable  lot & do nothing. We happened to land on the big day of the year - 14th Jan - their (& Russia's) New Year's day. The streets were all crowded & Greek troops marching through the town for a big parade. Officers with wonderful blue & white feathers in their hats & mounted on small ponies -  men all right, but not well booted - & certainly not fit for much hard work in the hills unless they have much better boots in their stores. The streets altogether are a wonderful sight. British, French, Greek & Servian soldiers everywhere, & it seems so odd to see our own men walking about & driving their carts about the place, all mixed up with the other nationalities  - and all getting on well together. The Greeks had a very large force here, but have withdrawn nearly all these & now have only one Division. The Admiral & I went to call on poor old King Peter of Servia yesterday - poor old man I feel very
sorry for him, driven out of his country as he has been  with all that remains of his Army - it is some of these  who are here & fine stolid fellows they seem to be. Genl. Sarail who commands the French is also C-in-C  here & has our troops under him - a very fine looking fellow with blue eyes & white hair. He dined here, & I called on him yesterday - today I have to go & have dějeuner with him &hope it may be not be a huge feast. Unfortunately he doesn't speak a word of English. He is evidently a man quite prepared to act on his own responsibility which is a great thing, as two days ago he sent in some of his engineers & blew up a big railway bridge some miles off which cuts off the Bulgars from attacking here. I fancy the Greek Govt. must be very angry about it, but are helpless. Cold - my goodness isn't it just cold here! The first ride I went on with Genl. Mahon & the Admiral I thought I should never get my hands and feet warm & there   was such a bracing wind blowing through one. In spite   of this our troops here are extraordinarily fit as the weather is so bracing. Today it is snowing & horribly cold & uncomfortable. To my astonishment I found Col. Cox Cooke of the 32nd in command of a Brigade here & I fancy doing very well in all the Pioneer work
which is what they are doing here entirely in the  way of making roads, digging trenches etc. I  tried to see Cooke, but he was out when I went to   his Brigade.  I enclose a very nice telegram Lord K. forwarded me from   Genl. Joffre which you may like to see & keep - it was  nice of him writing to me. I much fear my little  Genl. Brulard wants to kiss me before I leave! He has sent to say that he has now received from France the Star of the Legion of Honour for me & that he is  particularly anxious to give me this personally - part of this  ceremony is I believe being kissed, so I am anxious to have it presented as privately as possible - though I fear he wants a parade! I enclose a copy of a rather divine little poem some one made out on the night we evacuated Helles. A General Maude wouldn't hurry up & insisted on bringing on a valise with him, while a General Lawrence (Lorenzo) who was commanding the rear guard was fuming at being kept waiting - especially as he was a very bad sailor & dreading the sea when he embarked - & this was getting worse every minute! 18th I am finishing this on board the cruiser 'Chatham' on my way to Egypt. Admiral de Robeck has given her to me to do down in - a nice boat but she
shakes like anything & writing is difficult - however I know I'll be overwhelmed with work & letters directly I reach Egypt, so I'll post this when I get there. I had another nice ride around Salonika before we left - just like home and in places we were riding over lovely downs & through 6 or 7 inches of snow. All round our trenches was a good foot of snow but the men all seemed fit &cheery. It is   certainly a much nicer country than Egypt, & they all seem to   like it. Then I returned to Mudros on Lord Nelson to find  Genl. Brulard had arranged a farewell parade of all the French troops there for me & to present me with the French decorations. It really was quite affecting as the little man seemed to feel it sincerely - my kindness to them & my going. After going round the troops we formed up in a  square when he made a most impassioned speech & then decorated me - followed by kissing!!! I had always thought the French kiss on such occasions was merely a formal "peck" on one's cheek, but he literally fell on my chest & embraced me & gave me 2 enormous kisses on either cheek, with tears rolling down his cheeks! It really was awfully nice of him & I felt perhaps I ought to have been able to rise to the same! As it was I made him a short reply of thanks. Later he invested a lot of other officers & men with lower orders & gave each of them a quiet kiss! Wasn't  all the  men, but I think he did the officers. Among the latter was Genl. Cunliffe Owen my R.A. General
who is just off for short leave home. If I see him   before he goes I will get him to take with him by  my French decorations for him to keep till I return as I don't want to risk losing them out here - he got one too on my recommendation - (ship rolling & shaking a lot). Brulard had me escorted off the  parade by Chasseurs d'Afrique, so went out of the  way to do me all the honours he could, & I am  quite sorry to leave the little man. Mind you send me that cigarette holder for him, as I know how touched he will be to get it. I   have asked for an English decoration for him.  After parade we went back to "Lord Nelson" when I   said goodbye to the Admiral &went came on board   'Chatham' to find quite to my surprise further  honours. The Admiral had ordered her to instead  of steaming right away to steam slowly round
the fleet - all the decks of the battleships  were manned for me & they cheered as we  passed, & finally on passing the flag ship after  cheering me, the band played "Auld Lang Syne" -   wasn't it awfully nice of them - an honour I   fancy very seldom paid to a soldier & I felt   it very much. I could only shout out my   thanks through a megaphone as we cleared   off. And so ends this chapter of our fighting.  What I wonder is before us in Egypt? And  I expect we will all be in France in April.  The close association with the Navy during  this brief war has been an experience of which   I'll always be glad, for it so seldom comes  in the way of any soldier. My first 30 years  service, I have not known the Navy or its ways 
at all, while in this last war I have seen  so much of them & have been on really dozens of   their ships - battleships, cruisers & destroyers.  I've had a nice time on all of them & made  many good friends especially Admirals de Robeck   & Thursby.  By the bye do see if you can get a copy of  a small poem by Kipling "If".  It is only   about 4 or 5 verses all & I fancy you can get  it in a form to frame & hang up. If so do get it & give it to Chris to hang up near his  looking glass & he can see it every morning when dressing - it is excellent & I saw one of the   officers on Lord Nelson had it, & liked it so much. Also look out for the 'Anzac Magazine' when it comes out as it will do in Feb or March. It will be quite good & has been written by 
men at Anzac & I have written a short introduction for it.  Be sure to send me 3 or 4 copies of it, as I want to send them to men to men like de Robeck & Thursby who will I know like them. Genl. Skene has just rejoined me & given me latest news of you!  He says he just missed you at the Anzac buffet, but heard you were looking exceedingly well & gave me a most magnificent "swop" for you!!  He heard of an Australian who after seeing you had said "He knew Genl B wood &liked him very much & he was a good friend of his, but he couldn't well forgive him for going & marrying quite a young girl like you"!!!! That after seeing you at the buffet! - Goodbye my own little one &all my love.  Ever your very loving old, Will.