
Author: Hardinge of P
Date: 27 July 1917
Rank: Private
Nationality: British

Text:

Private.  July 27 1917.        My dear Birdwood,                                  Thank you so much for your letter of the 20th. You will have seen from the papers the most recent developments relating  to the Mesopotamia report, and how chivalrously Mr. Balfour defended me,  going so far as to threaten even his own resignation. What has not so far transpired is the fact that on each of the three occasions upon
which I offered my resignation I made  it conditional upon the Govt giving me a judicial inquiry, the fact being that the Attorney General had expressed the opinion that none of the charges made against me would bear five minutes judicial investigation. What the Govt  wanted was that I should resign without having the opportunity to obtain redress, to which of course I could not agree and in which view I was strongly supported by Mr. Balfour, in fact so strongly that the Govt  had in the end to refuse to accept my resignation, although a few days
before they had suggested to me to resign “in order to ease the situation of Govt“ Was there ever such a display of weakness and indecision? I am wondering what is going to happen to B. Duff. I do hope they will leave him alone. I hear that Babtie will ask for a court martial and is quite certain to clear himself entirely. I am told that one of the charges made against him is in relation to something that happened six months after he left India! I always regarded him as a 1st class Surgeon General, and I hear that he enjoys the same reputation here. One may well ask the use of these 
Commissions. I am told that the 2nd  Dardanelles report is a very bad one & throws a lot of mud everywhere. If the Govt. are wise they will sit on it. The news from Russia  is very bad and it is difficult to see how it will be possible to stop the rot that has set in. We certainly ought not to count on them any more, at least for the present. I hope you are keeping fit and well. My boy has been passed fit, but is not going out again yet I am glad to say. I feel battered and worn out, and am going away on the 1st Aug. for a fortnight's rest. Ever your's  Hardinge of P. 