
Author: William Birdwood
Location: Lone Pine
Date: 9 August 1915 
Nationality: Australian

Text:    My own darling girl,  I have just got your letter of 28th July, while we are  still in the midst of the big fight I wrote & told you we  were to have when I last wrote.  As I have just had to write  an account of this, I think the best thing I can do is to  enclose a copy of it as that will give you a pretty  good idea - though it will not cover the great anxiety  in which I now am about the final results - we were so  near complete success in our first night attack - General  Shaw who has lately come to me in command of one of K's New Army Divisions & who is such a nice & good soldier  whom I met in S. Africa, told me after just not succeeding  that he had been trying to pick holes in the plans, but  had to confess that he thought everything possible had  been thought out & he could think of no other plan  which would have been nearly so likely to ensure  success.  If only the Regts on my extreme left had been  able to shove on a bit more & reach the crest by  dawn all would have been well & we should have  held command of the Dardanelles beyond. Then  again my second night attack, when I had  got on to the ridge, two Brigades were beaten down
by one unfortunate ship landing a series of huge  shells right among our men & inflicting heavy  losses, as a result of which they retired & the Turks  at once attacked them, making the whole attack a failure.   And as you will see the Brigade I already had up there was  beaten off the following night - leaving us in a most critical  position, for I still have to take the hill & the Turks have  had lots of time to bring up their reinforcements - They  must be in great numbers for we have killed I believe  several thousands & yet they continue to come along & I  must say they are real brave fellows - you see while clumps  of them being blown up in the air by shells, but still they  come on and don't seem to mind their losses.  Goodness knows how many of them we have killed,  while my casualties are terribly sickening - it is one  of the most horrible & painful sights you can imagine  to meet a constant stream of returning wounded  men from the front - some just hobbling - others being carried & all looking really much worse than  perhaps they are by being covered with blood, as of course there has been no time for washing.   And we are in a very critical state I think -  had I succeeded as I hoped & had General.
Stopford's Army Corps succeeded as I hoped it would have done, we should between us have held a very fine position Commanding the Dardanelles & giving us a safe base - but we have neither  of us succeeded & though we will stick to it, for all we know, yet every day makes it harder as the Turks will be in greater strength & more dug in - and the issue can be no certainty yet awhile. I have told my boys they have to stick to it & see every thing through & this they assure me they will do - and they will fight as long as we have the strength to  do so - and of course we will get reinforcements - but it all takes time. I can't think how it was that you didn't get one of my letters which I fear must have gone astray, as I have never missed writing. Angelsey has joined me & seems such a particularly nice fellow & all our  boys here on the staff have taken to him - at the same time I have heard that the Chief is letting me have de Crespigny & that he is now on his way here from Aden - so for the time being I shall have 3 ADC's, though Angelsey will probably not stay for more than a couple of months - I believe he has partly come because that Mother-in-law of his the Duchess of Rutland has been starting stories about him that he only came to Egypt to escape fighting & he wanted to prove this was not the case - As Sir Ian said, he would probably see more with me in a week than with most people in some months, & already he has had to take his share of bullets coming along very close over his  head when I took him along round my left flank fighting, & yesterday we hadn't gone 10 yards when a big shell landed about 20 yards off. I was rather amused as a new Battalion of the K. Army was just beside me at the time & 3 young soldiers promptly fell head over heels with fright! Not a very good augury, but it was probably the first they had heard or seen coming near, & they just fell over their own feet in a perfectly useless panic - if the Gunners who fired could have seen they most probably have thought they had hit them! These new Regts cannot at present touch my older hands. Now that de Crespigny is coming I cannot of course get Reggie Sherston, though as he is already an A.D.C. I probably in any case would not have been able to do so. What a nuisance it is that Nancy has had to return from the hospital & I am so sorry about it, for I quite agree with you that they will very soon get tired of her & say they can not keep her on if she gets sick a second time. I am quite sorry you couldn't all go to Lady Robinson at  Broadstairs, for it was most awfully kind of her to ask you & I daresay the change to the sea might have made you sleep all right - is it still too late to say you find you can go after all? All my love little wife. Ever your very loving old, Will. 