Author: W E Peyton
Date: 16 January 1917
Location: France
Rank: Field Marshall.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:



16.1.1917 GENERAL HEADQUARTERS, BRITISH ARMIES 1N FRANCE.  My dear General, Under the circumstances you mention in your letter of 15th inst. I do not think it is any good pursuing our effort to obtain Artillery Officers for the Royal Artillery from the A.I.F.  If you see your way in the future to help us I hope you will do so
for I foresee we shall be in desperate straits for officers of all classes later on.  I saw Des Vallieres about this Frenchman Perrier you wished to keep.  He says he is very sorry but he has the most stringent orders to take every one  he also said he has written to you to explain this.  I hope you had
a pleasant time at home
Private It is very good of you to express your regret at the omission of my name.  I of course have [[never?]] written to Maxwell on the subject- I presume he did not wish to press the subject- & with men going unrewarded in these Titanic struggles here it is perhaps just as well Especially whilst I remain in my present Batn appt I spoke to the Chief about
releasing me but he said he considered it was my duty to stay where I was performing valuable service to the country,  he rather cut the ground from under my feet by enlarging on the  advantage it was to himself & the armies for me to remain where I am.  But after all "the Labourer is worthy of his hire" & he has again put forward that I should receive the same pay & status which I did before relinquishing my Divisional Command to take on this.  I feel sorry things have gone
wrong for me in life generally & it is no good worrying. If Providence wishes to make a football of one there is nothing to be said or done but grin & bear it. I do not know why the War office did not accept the Chiefs' re-  commendation for your K.C.B. xxxxxxx The Chief expressed surprise when I told him of the omission I do not know if he will speak about it whilst in England. Not 
only have your own service,  more than deserved it, but  your troops & the people in  Australia must resent their  failure to recognize your services.  There are a queer lot at the War  Office who scratch each others  backs  Yours always  WE Peyton