Author: William Birdwood
Date: 12 November 1915.
Location: Dardanelles
Rank: Field Marshall.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

Dardanelles Army 12 November 1915. My own darling Jenny Jane - At last two letters from you. the ones you sent by Sir Ian by Kings Messenger and dated 22nd & 25th November. I have had nothing from you since the one dated 31st. October between them. So goodness knows how many of them may not have gone wrong & been lost. You mention two having at least got one from me, written just before I was to meet Lord K - but you do not say if you have got my others answering all the questions you wanted to know about - Chris's  £500 - your investments - the Simla Bank Pass book - the  £52 I asked you about being credited to our account at home etc. (has this been done?]. Do please tell me if you have ever got my letters telling you all about these things - for I have now written about most of them, at least 3 times I think! I haven't yet got the Diary for 1916- "Letts. No. 35 Indian & Colonial Rough Diary" - Has it been sent yet, for I am much hoping to get it during the next fortnight. I am having a horribly anxious time of it [[?]] I have no wish ever to go through again. It does seem wrong that I who am the one person to have been opposed to the present policy am selected as the man to carry it out, for I just hate it- and it has such possibilities of terrible disaster and none of glory or victory! However, that is neither here or there- I am given the job & I am going to see it through as well as I possibly can & I hope I have made all the 
arrangements & taken all the precautions I can. Indeed I am confident of doing it successfully as far as is humanly possible, but I have the worst, most fickle & most relentless enemy to contend with-viz- hot weather. We are entirely dependent on it. It favoured us landing & I pray God it may do so again now. After that fearful storm & blizzard one realises what the weather can be like here, and a continuous storm for 3 or 4  days would put us in most fearful jeopardy. All this last week it has been all right of have been getting away men, guns, ammunition & stores as fast as I can & I'd have checked almost everything & got away all the men had this been possible, but they require an enormous amount of lighters & barges which have to be collected from all over the place those are not all ready yet - just a few more days fine weather & I am all right. And then I have another enemy in the moon! I'd hurry on now like anything to avoid it when almost full but I can't. Then I'd like to put it off till the full moon was again gone, but I simply daren't  trust the weather holding out & must take advantage of every fine moment I can - You see what a fearful gamble it is, and on top of all this. I am quite dependent on the provision by the Navy of all the necessary small  craft, which may get scattered or broken up by storms. But I can not help feeling confident that all will go well. What will happen  in the future I haven't an idea - nor can I say where I will be a fortnight hence!  or what troops I will have with me. I have just been spending a day with the French General here, a very nice little fellow called Bruelard. It is such a nuisance not being able to talk French as of course I have to make all sorts of arrangements with me. He & his troops are now directly under me & we are the best of friends. They to everything so very differently to me, and strike us as 
very casual in many ways.  a lot of their arrangements  though are much better than ours & they certainly know how to  feed themselves excellently! They give me a most wonderful dejeneur at Sed-el Bahr Fort whenever I go over there to see them! A few days before I got your letters I had one from Capt. Pollen telling me you had been lunching there. Both he & Col. Wigram said very nice things about your youthful looks which I must keep as a swop!!  I'm so glad too that you met Sir Ian there- as he is a dear & I'm so very sorry for him. I can't look upon   him as a very big man, as he is really shallow by nature- artistic if you like it too,  but I don't know that he could ever concentrate himself very deeply in thinking things out. I may be wrong and I certainly like him very much. I am glad to say he tells me he has put on a stone in weight since he has been at home, & he can well afford to put another. I don't think he was ever too fit all the time out here. He too said such nice things about you. Very glad my message for the Christmas cards was all right, & what you tell me about the design of the card sounds capital, &I'm so glad you had arranged everything equally for the New Zealanders. But I don't know how you are going to get cards to all the men at home, for there seems to be several thousands there. I am so sorry to hear you are & sleeping so badly again little one after all your rushing about in town - not that I have heard much of that as I expect you told me about it in your letters which have not turned up. one mail at all events I am nearly sure must have been sunk by a submarine. I do hope a quiet time again
at Thurlby will put you all right, though I suppose the house will be very full again for Christmas. Peel House must be a wonderful place for the men & I had not heard of it before. I must say people have been most extraordinary good in the way they have provided such places. I'm so glad you were able to see Genl. Walker, but you don't say how he was! I have heard nothing of him since he got home, so have no idea if he is likely to be right soon & able to come out & rejoin us again or not. What did he say about it? I will try & make sure that Peacock gets his letter But the Division is just on the move with all this change before us that I shan't be able to make sure of anything getting to anyone for just a short time. I see Lady Chesterfield tried with exactly what I had [[?]] [[early]] done about your serving on her committee - & that your name  was what they really wanted!. Only very few are wanted to run such things - large committees do nothing - one working member generally does everything, but I suppose that  at the present time while I am with the Australians your name is used useful in such a thing. I can't  imagine that Mrs Cliff is of any great value in the  committee working line! Does she ever talk of her step mother,  my A.D.C's mother! I expect not - my fellow is a real  good man in his way that I feel absolutely certain  he would die for me at any moment & risk anything  in the way, of certain death for me - but he is so 
uneducated as not to be of any f real value - & his accent  is the worst & commonest I have heard!  You can tell Lady Chesterfield that I always do all I possibly  can for the Y.M.C.A., as both here & in Egypt, I have found  them doing so much real good work for the men and they are  deserving of every consideration & help.  I often wonder how they  manage things so well as they do.  Coming to think about it I am not at all sure that the letter  I wrote you about as having been captured by the Austrian sub  -marine off Messina was dated from "Lord Nelson" - I rather think  I must have posted that one at Mudros in the previous week. If  so the one you will not have got was sent from here on my  return from Mudros about 27th November.  Leaving my Anzac position & trenches, is for me almost like leaving  a child & I was quite heart broken when going  round them again  a few days ago to see all they had been doing & which they  showed me with so much pride to meet my wishes in the  way of making themselves impenetrable against heavy shell fire.  There they had beautiful [[?]] underground chambers dug 20ft  under the earth, with several shafts leading down to each  so that the air was quite fine, with several entrances you   couldn't be buried in the event of a large shell blowing   up one in there. They had no idea that they were not to  stick to them & I am sure they will feel it terribly when  they find they have to leave. I am issuing them the  best order I can on the subject.  I was going round all my old haunts & found that the   Turks had evidently discovered where my pet sniper 
Sing used to shoot from, as they got on to his place with  their artillery & had simply blown it to pieces! However Sing  in the mean time had been invalided for rheumatism, after  having got just on 230 Turks. They are careless fellows  &when going round that day I had a small hole made in my  leg by a bit of a bomb, but luckily it was through my  thick leather gaiters, so did no harm.  Ive enclosed letter from "Dolly Wight" will amuse you!   I haven't the least idea who she can be, have I? : I  think she must be an entire stranger - What rum 'uns  there are in the world - But it was very kind of her to  have thought of writing - I had a letter the other  day from Mrs Monty Butter asking me about some   man she wanted me to send home.  Goodbye my own little lamb &all my love to  you &the children.  Ever your very loving old,  Will.  