Author: William Birdwood
Date: 7 January 1916
Location: Dardanelles
Rank: Field Marshall.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:


Headquarters,  Dardanelles Army, M E. F.  7th January, 1916.     [*To his wife*]     I am beginning a letter to you just before the  final evacuation of the Gallipoli Peninsula.  I wrote and  told you what a very trying time of it I had over "Anzac" and   Suvla, and I am now again in the throes of the whole thing  over Helles, which I am sincerely hoping to see through  successfully tomorrow night.  It is of course a very different  proposition, as the Turks are naturally thoroughly awake to   what may happen, and the latest prisoners tell us that German  officers are constantly going round their trenches at night,   so they evidently mean to have at us if they can.  They keep  aeroplanes flying over our position day and night, while they  have lately been keeping up a continuous bombardment through-  out the twentyfour hours on our beaches, mostly with big shells   - 4.2", 8" etc., which makes work extremely difficult and   dangerous.  Two nights ago, a note was thrown across into one  of our trenches in German - "When are you finally leaving here?  "We shall all meet again on the Suez Canal!" so they have  evidently made more than an intelligent anticipation of their  own and our intentions.  In spite of this, I am full of  confidence and hope of being able to withdraw successfully,  provided always (as before) that the weather is kind to us, and   I have every faith that this will be the case.  I am arranging at Helles to withdraw 17,000 men in   one night.  We have 20,000 men there at present, of whom we   get off 3,000 tonight, and leave the balance for another  twentyfour hours, but it is of course quite possible that heavy   weather may spring up at any moment, in which case we are strong   enough there to hold our own for a week, and all arrangements  are made, if heavy weather should come on, to stand fast until   the first fine night, when all will be withdrawn.  We have  still got about 50 guns ashore - French and English, and I   am afraid that I must make up my mind to sacrifice between  twenty and thirty of these, but they will of course all be   blown up at the last moment.  Though these may sound a   largish number, yet they really are negligible.  Among the  British guns that we are abandoning, only one is what you  might call a modern weapon, viz., a 6" gun.  Of the remaining   English guns, we have got off all modern weapons, viz., 18 pr.,  6" and 4.5" howitzers, leaving behind only the old 15 pr. and  5" howitzers, which have been brought out here by Territorials,  and for which I understand no more ammunition is being  manufactured.  With the French guns I am getting away all their  beloved 75's, and leaving behind only four 9.2" and two Naval   guns.  They tell me that all of these have fired about 5,000  rounds each, and are really of little value to them, so I think  we can blow them up without regret.  I am sorry to say that we will have to destroy a  goodish number of transport animals before going, which may   possibly amount to eight or nine hundred.  We have had real  bad luck regarding them which has been unavoidable.  The first  night when we started evacuation, I sent over a horse ship,  which would have brought away 500, when the French Flagship  proceeded - apparently without much reason, to ram and sink  her as she left the harbour here, defeating me for that night.  The following night a high wind got up, making work practically  impossible, and a whole lighter load of mules, that was on the  point of being shipped, got driven out to see and was lost.  If we could only rely upon fine weather, we would   of course be able to get off all our animals, but I dare not   gamble with them against men's lives, and I feel I must take  advantage of the first fine night to get away, and just destroy  the remaining animals; but I mean to get off all I possibly   can between now and the actual time of going.  It will be a   real load taken off my shoulders, and, if we succeed, Government   should indeed be grateful for the efforts made by this force  to see them through a very uncomfortable position.  I am delighted to say that I have found my  relations with the French, since I have been in command here,  have been excellent, and I am most grateful to little  General Brulard for the way he has met me in every detail.  Some little time ago, by the wish of the French Government,  we evacuated their Senegalese (24 companies) and 1,500 Creoles,  so as to get them out of the cold.  As soon as I get definite  orders for evacuation here, I at once withdrew the whole of the  remaining French Infantry - about 5,000 men, so as not to have   any possibility of divided command in the final rearguard, but  General Brulard at once agreed to leave me the whole of his  artillery, to be withdrawn entirely at my discretion, gun by  gun pari passu with the British guns - their C.R.A. taking his   orders direct from mine, and giving me an entirely free hand  about abandoning any of his guns.  I have or course explained  to him that every possible French gun we can get away will be   withdrawn, while he agreed it would be out of the question to  get away his six big guns, which he assured me were of very   little value to them.  The little man has played the game most  thoroughly, and I am extremely grateful to him.  I will of course  bring his name to notice when I send in my report on the   evacuation, and I sincerely trust it may be found possible to  give him a "K.C.B.," which I know he and the French troops   would sincerely appreciate.  He has been kind enough to send  me a telegram yesterday, telling me that his Government have  approved of my becoming a Grand Officier de Legion d'Honneur,  while they have also conferred upon me the "Croix de Guerre  avec palme," though I am at a loss to think why they should   have thought fit to honour me in this way.  The Germans are evidently very keen upon getting   at my Headquarters, and we almost daily have a visit from   "Fritz."  He came along over here yesterday, and got in two  good sized bombs just either side of my tiny wooden hut, and  then proceeded to fly over our transport lines, where I am   sorry to say he sent showers of hand grenades, causing  casualties to 130 mules and about 30 men in our camp, so I   fear it was for him a successful raid.  All our anti-aircraft   guns on the ships and on shore were firing away at him for all  they knew, but I am sorry to say with no success.  We sent up  our machines over to their aerodromes at once in retaliation,  and I am glad to say they seem to think they did some good.   I am delighted to have Admiral de Robeck back here,  and he has kindly come up here and made his headquarters   alongside of me;  we see each other daily to arrange about all  details, as was the case with Wemyas before the other withdrawals.  Admiral Fremantle is also here with tow of the ships of his  lately arrived squadron, "Hibernia" and Russell," both of which  are delighted I think to be here in time to join in, and we   have been having some very successful shooting recently by them  on the Turkish batteries on the Asiatic coast with I hope good  results.  Monro and his staff went down to Egypt ten days ago,   and I presume I shall follow on down there, as soon as I have   cleared Helles - but exactly in what capacity, and what force I  shall have under me when I get there, I do not yet know.  de  Robeck is very anxious that I should go over to Salonika with  him to look round there before I go to Egypt, and I hope  perhaps I may be able to manage this for a couple of days.     (Later - 09/01/1916.)  Not having been able to get this off before, I have  kept it until our evacuation was over, which I am thankful to   say was the case at 4 a.m. today, and I now again feel a free  man with no anxieties - but just a little done up, though only  for a day or so.  After a lot of bad weather the sky suddenly  cleared, and we had two days which were lovely, so I decided to  take advantage of this, and put forward final evacuation by 24  hours, viz., the night of 8/9th.   On the afternoon of the 7th, the Turks suddenly  developed.
Capt. Drury Low  of the Chatham is taking home my  French decorations  for me - please  let me know if  you receive these  all right.  There are 3  of them in  one box.  The Chatham will  probably not be home  till middle February
