Author: R Wingate
Date: 2 May 1917
Location: Cairo Egypt
Nationality: British

Text:




CAIRO  Dictated  2nd May 1917  My dear Birdwood  I hope, before you receive this letter,  news will have reached you that all has been satisfactorily  arranged with regard to your Nile Decoration and I  warmly congratulate you on being given the Grand Cordon.  I was delighted to get your interesting  letter of the 11th February.  Since it was written I expect  you have been at it hammer and tongs and we are all amazed  and delighted at the splendid successes which have been  achieved by the British Troops in France. I have not the  slightest doubt that the 1st ANZAC Corps has taken a very  brilliant part in this terrific fighting and I hope your  casualties have not been very heavy. The French offensive  in the south must also be very disconcerting to the bosches  and I earnestly trust that the combined efforts of the  Allies will so shake the Hindenberg line as to make it  untenable.  Please give my best regards to Smyth and  any other old friends in the Corps.
Whenever I mention your name to the Sultan   he beams with pleasure and evidently considers you one of   his best friends -  he is also a man for whom I have a   great respect and affection and it is a grief to me to see   that his health is now so indifferent -  A complete change  abroad and a water "Cure" might help matters, but I am   afraid nothing of this sort is possible until the war is   over.  I much appreciate all you so kindly did   in regard to Forth -  Almost immediately on his arrival here  he was rushed out to the Gaza front in command of an  Australian Battalion of the Imperial Camel Corps and I   regret to say that in the second fight he was wounded in   the shoulder, but I have not found out yet where he us or   whether the wound is very severe.  I am afraid my friends in France must   think I have become an extremely bad correspondent but the  work here is very heavy and takes up all my time so that   private correspondence has to go by the board, but I hope   when we go down to Alexandria next month to be less rushed.
I have no time to write more but will only wish you and   your gallant Corps the very best of luck and an earnest   wish that you will soon completely smash the bosches.  Yours very sincerely ,  R Wingate     General Sir William Birdwood, K.C.S.I.,K.C.M.G., C.B., &c.  1st ANZAC Corps,  British Expeditionary Force,  France.