
Author: William Birdwood  Date: 6 October 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:
 My own little girl.  There is certainly something still very extraordinary  with these posts. I got just a very short note of yours dated 15  Sept saying you had written me earlier in the week. The only  letter before that was of the 4th - so you are sure to have written  in the interval, but nothing has come. It may still do so  a week hence! and in the mean time I have just been very  glad to get yours of 20th. I am glad Chris spent a few  days at Packwood as the Bradshaws are so very nice & it is  nice to think that he remembers them so kindly & is still  glad to go there & be with them- it is a good trait. I  am sure he is a dear good boy. I was writing to Mr  Rintoul lately. Chris could I fancy go up for Sandhurst  next July, but if he is still very young & unfussed. I am  not at all sure that it would not be better for  him to wait six months longer at Clifton & go up  the following December. It is too early to decide  now, as it must partially depend on how the  war goes on, but I am not at all sure that  this would not be best for him in the long  run - I fancy J has selected an excellent  place in Sherbourne- It is a school they love of which I have always heard well spoken of, &   I fancy it is very nice country all round there  & very healthy, so let us hope poor Georgie will do  well there. I fear she must be very unsettled   with Percy gone off. I am thankful he has not  come over here with his Regt, as all the Officers  of those Regts seem to get killed here! The numbers I  have lost from both the New Army & Territorial  Divisions is really awful - and there seems to be no  replacing them. I have some Regts with only 3 or 4  Officers in them & possibly useless ones at that!  Percy I fancy may have been in all this recent  hard fighting in France & I do hope he may have  come through it safely. I fancy re-employment  must have been a tremendous joy to him, after  so many idle months with no object in  life.  I have just been on board the hospital ship  "Rewa". The old Captain was awfully nice &   asked after you so kindly, remembering  you well from having travelled on her.
I was on her before about six weeks ago, &  you will be glad to hear that the Doctor in   charge told me he wouldn't have known me for  the same man - that I was then a scare-crow about  whom they were all very anxious, and that I had  since put on at least 1½ stone in weight. While  some big London Doctor who was on board told  de Crespigny as we were leaving that I "was  the first General he had met out here who didn't  seem to have one foot in the grave"!! So you  see little one, you needn't worry very much  about my health now!!  Chris hasn't yet sent me - nor have I seen - the  pictures you tell me of in the Daily Mail,  Union etc - & which I fear sound terribly  ridiculous & inclined to make me feel such  a fool. Do you remember Capt. Aspinall in  Simla? He is now here on the Staff and  recently got a Brevet. These wretched  papers had a picture of his wife with two 
or three small children underneath "all  very pleased at Daddy's Brevet"!! Poor  Aspinall has never heard the end of it.  I have at last been able to get some small amount  of information for  poor Punch which I enclose.  These two papers should at all events be sufficient  to enable her to claim any pension to which she  may be entitled & I do hope she may be able to  settle things up all right - and I trust to get  to some a pension which may be of some use to  her.  Frank Birdwood told me to you had been writing to  him about some rent for Dalkeith House & I am  so glad to think that we have at all events got  something - for I really never expected to get  anything! Once the tenant has paid off what he  expended on repairs, you will get more rent.  Will you please look up your pass book & see  if I have been credited with about £ 50  from the India Office - for It is for some allowances  which I should have got in Egypt, but which have only recently arrived & the pay  people tell me have been credited to my acc. at  home instead of here, so be sure to tell me if this  is the case.  I told you I think that poor Skeen had been invalided  with enteric - he is at Malta & I hear going on quite  favourably, but apparently it is certain that he  will have to go home, so will probably not rejoin me  for months to come. I have been very lucky in getting  such a really nice fellow in a Col. White to   succeed him - he is an Australian & an exceptional  one - As nice & able a fellow as I have ever met  & it is a real pleasure having him on my Staff.  Genl. Williams has now left me on promotion to  Engineer in Chief on Sir Ian's Staff and I  have got Col Lesslie in his place. He is such  a dear fellow - always so hard working, keen  and faithful, and I am so glad that this  means a good step up for him. But  who is to succeed him I do not quite  know. I shall ask for Walter Norman, but 
fear there is little chance of getting him.  Lord K's speech in the House of Lords was  certainly very nice & I am only afraid that the  troops will be getting a bit jealous of my  Australians, though the latter really are so  very good indeed that, as far as we are  concerned here, they do stand out & certainly  did so in the actions Lord K spoke about. I  have had his speech published in orders for  their information.  That Primitive Gas Co: notice probably means  that no dividends will be paid on ordinary  shares, but I fancy they will be so on preference  ones, which draw less dividends ordinarily  but go on being paid irrespective of anything  else if the Company can pay. I forget how many  of each I have - in any case there is nothing  to be done about it.  All Chelien dividends are paid into the  Alliance Bank & I have asked Sir A. Ken 
to invest any balance we may have  there.  I don't fancy it can be much after  paying rent of Somerleyton & sums remitted home  by the Bank after they ceased to draw my  pay in Dec, January & February - though Bob has  paid in ₨ 2000 odd as part of poor Dick's  estate.  Frank told me a certain amount about the Zeppelin  raid in London. He is employed in connection with  the Anti air Craft guns at the Admiralty. It  seems extraordinary that our aeroplanes should not be  able to deal with these ships. I am sure that  ere long we shall be able to do so. I am rather  a believer in Sir Percy Scott & I hope he will  be able to arrange for some real surprise for  them.  Goodbye my own little lamb & all my love  to you - Ever your very loving old,  Will.  