Author: William Birdwood
Location: Anzac Cove Turkey Date: 17 May 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:
 My own darling little girl. You can imagine what a state of depression I feel in today & one is almost afraid of becoming unnerved when losses suddenly come on one - though that is the very last thing one can afford to be at times like these & whatever happens one has to appear cheery & confident. It makes such a difference being in command oneself or merely carrying on & obeying orders. Though Sir Ian is C-in-C - and a most charming one - yet I have to run the show here entirely on my own & am entirely responsible. He is a dozen miles off where he has 5 Divisions & has only been to see me twice - which I take it is quite a compliment & shows he is quite satisfied with my command. It is a big responsibility though as we still do not hold by any means an impregnable position. I have 10,000 rifles while round me are about 24,000 Turks & firing still never ceases. Every other night or so it rises at times to a perfect roar & the Turks must get through many thousands of rounds. You
can never tell that this does not mean a very large attack & possible piercing of my line in some vital spot, so I always have to be very much on the alert - which is the great thing my men are not! However we have now killed so many of them & have
I think established our moral superiority over them, that I doubt if they will really rise to attacking us with the bayonet & all their heavy fire is merely to frighten us off from
attacking them! There must be some brave men among them of a beastly description in snipers, for even now we are catching men hiding in holes right inside our valley where they have been 3 weeks. They have had a supply of ammunition & food with them & have just picked off any one they could & I fear have accounted for a lot of good men - the whole place is covered with very thick scrub which in places is nearly impenitrable, so it has been easy for a man to lie up & never be discovered using smokeless powder. Yesterday the Australians caught one with 3 Identity discs & ₤80 on him, which he had evidently taken from men he had killed - one such sniper had painted his face green! Isn't it awful - they get very short shift when caught. Which brings me to why I feel so depressed. I think I told you Genl. Bridges had been so seriously wounded & I fear now they hold out no hopes of his recovery - both the femoral vein & artery were cut & though a Doctor happened to be actually on the spot, yet he naturally lost much blood & he is not a man who can afford to do so. He is such a nice charming fellow. Considerably older than me, he might well have resented my coming here, but far from doing so, he is has always been full of loyalty & deference, and has done all he possibly can to help in every way. Such a nice quiet, cultured creature, who I thought might have proved rather high strung & nervous under fire. Not a bit of it - he was quite happy under it & was doing excellently. His loss from a professional point of view
is immense as we have so many Australian details to consider, which only he knew about, & I'll find it difficult now. Whether one of these wretched snipers got him or it was a long distant shot, we will never know. I went on board the hospital ship yesterday to see him off to Egypt & was told his leg was mortifying & that amputation would he necessary, while they feared there was little or no chance of his being able to stand the operation, or indeed living to get to Egypt. It was most sad leaving him & I had to arrange for him to be buried at Alexandria
if he died at sea. Then I came ashore & was met by the most awful news that while I had been away, my beloved Villiers-Stuart had been killed. You will of course have seen this, & you will know now much I feel it. Only the evening before when he came to see me with his reports, I noticed a scratch on his nose & asked him how he got it. He said he had been out scouting & got this creeping through the bushes. I then & there ordered him not to do this again as I valued his life much too much to risk it in such a manner with little or no object. When I was out he went off to make a sketch of some of the Turk trenches from a place right in the centre of our position where he should have been fairly safe. Foolishly enough he seems to have exposed himself unnecessarily
& at a place close to where we have some of our
guns, at which the enemy often fire, and they began again possibly at him or the guns. In any case they got him with a bit of shrapnel in the heart & he must have died at once. Poor dear old fellow - it does seem too awful - so true, brave, able & modest as he was. We buried him last night (it isn't safe to do so during the day) in a regular soldier's grave, for guns were booming even then & several bullets whistled
over head as we stood round. I shall feel his loss very much as he was so completely reliable & faithful - my most devoted of friends & officers. How sorry one must feel for her too, poor thing, expecting as she is No. 1 next month. I have just sent her & his brother a line. You will I am sure want to do so too, Castlane, Carrick-on-Suir, Ireland will find her. I wired to his brother to break the news to her. All here were so fond of him, & I do hope I may lose no more. They are all so good & careful of me, & I see how at nights they make  the sentry stand absolutely at the entrance of my dug out -  they are so afraid of any wretched spy (we find these snipers are wearing our uniforms) coming along & wanting to do for me. I don't think they will succeed in that as I have an excellent guard of Ceylon Planters who are such a nice lot of fellows. I am, I am sorry to say, now losing my Admiral Thursby who I shall miss very much, but he
has to take the Queen and some other ships to Malta -  we have worked together so happily -  that he will be a loss. I get "Canopus" in place of "Queen".
Goodbye, my own little one. I hear a raid is just going. All my love to you. Ever your very loving old, Will.
