Author: William Birdwood
Date: 25 November 1915.
Rank: Field Marshall.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

M.E.F.  25 November 1915.
 My own darling girl, I am getting awfully annoyed & rather anxious about your evident non-receipt of my letters, for I see there must evidently be many you do not get. Not only is it so vexatious not knowing what you don't receive, but if they go astray I feel I can not write nearly so fully as I do to you for there is no knowing into whose hands they may not fall. There is one thing you can make up your mind to - that is - if any questions you have asked me are not answered it is either because I have not got your letter - or previous ones of mine  have gone astray - for when writing to you, I always have your letters before me & go through everything you have said - referring to it in answering to it. Also no week has ever passed without my writing to you, while you tell me my last two are dated 30 Sept & 15 Oct. So evidently one if not two between have gone astray, as I have often posted 2 letters within 2 days. I fancy I have got most of your letters though they arrive  very irregularly, but some have evidently gone astray, as in one just received you say you told me "Dr. Goss says there is nothing much wrong with Judith's eyes". Well this is the very first I have heard of the result of you taking her there & I have been longing to hear about
it. In fact, some time ago I wrote asking you to be sure  to let me know, as beyond you saying you were taking her up  to town to see him, I had heard nothing of your visit -.  Your last week's letter was 23rd Feb - one just reced is 31st.   You probably wrote between. Would you like me to number  my envelopes? I used to do it when I was writing Mother &  you can then always see if one has gone astray, if you do  not receive consecutive numbers - you might do the same -  begin the next one 1.?  As in your last letter you still  ask about things I have received - I write about these  again - though I have certainly already done so 3 times.  Do please let me know if you get this letter! I have   received I think all the weekly parcels of fruit from  Harrods - but not one with shortbread. Moving about as   I have been doing this last month - a night or two everywhere,  I haven't been able to see any of my things, & I find I have  over half a dozen tins of fruit now accumulated here,  so please do not send any more. I am now in a Regular  mess at A.H.Q. where they get such things as they want,  so really special things sent like this are not  wanted little one - they get tinned milk etc. Steward  is most awfully good about to such things & looks after   me like anything. I do wish we could always  keep him!  The two stores have not yet arrived, but they
would be sure to take some time,  in the mean  time the excellent Lotboniere has got me one. I now  have him back on my Staff as Chief Engineer of the Army   & Genl. Williams has gone on to Sir C Monro. I am glad  to have old Lobo back, & he is in our mess.  Mrs Hilton's money I so well remember writing about in detail  & later on I also did so to Chris. Maj. Wright had always  said he meant to do something for Chris, but beyond the  silver Christening mug he gave him when I came back from  S. Africa, I never thought more of it. I heard he had left all  his money to Mrs Hilton, though I believe he gave a sum of   £2 or 500 to Walter Numan - probably for his boy in the same  way as for Chris. The money is all right with the Public  Trustee there is nothing more you can do in the  matter : he will pay dividends as due into the account at  the Bank, as I think you asked him to do. The  bath towels have just arrived & many thanks for them  little one - they will do me capitally, though alas! all  sea bathing is now over, as it is much too cold & I am  no longer right on the beach as I used to be -   I am glad to hear you have got the £333 all  right. You will not get any such sum again,   as it was only a lot of back pay I haven't spent.  Will you please be sure to let me know if the Bank 
has also been credited with a sum of about £50 or  52 - which they should have got some months ago - it may   have been sent as "Lodging allowance" - which was due  for my time in Egypt, to partly cover expenses of Shepherd's  Hotel. I see you have evidently now got my letter  saying to invest all future savings in the war loan, so   that is all right. Don't send tinned milk or butter, as  we can get them both - & now that I think of it, if 2  tins fruit have been sent me weekly, I certainly can  only have got about one half, as not nearly so many tins  as that have come. Did you get a letter in which I  complained of Harrod's bad packing, resulting in some  arriving broken to pieces, & only coming at all, by some  kind friend having re-addressed them for me! This is   when they are done up in paper only - but when in boxes  they have arrived all right. There have been fearful  complaints about mails here lately - no one had had   a letter of any sort for about 3 weeks, when a mail   arrived today.  I am so thankful to think little Judith's eyes are  all right, as I should have been most unhappy if  I thought they were really wrong - did Cross say  she was to do anything particular for them in the  way of resting, bathing, or anything else? 
I must say I quite agree it is wonderfully good  of Capt Wray at his age serving as a Captain, but I  presume & hope there will be no question of his going to   France. You never told me how old Percy had returned from  there - your father did & I have asked Fitzgerald to see  if he can't possibly get him employment again in some   capacity or another.  I really don't think you are called on to take a flat in  London to look after committees. It seems to me that you  already do quite your share in a lot of work for the Australians  & others, and I don't think they can complain about you,   specially if you already spend £100 a year on general war   purposes.  I'm so glad you have been staying with the Wrays and Lady  Robinson, as I'm sure such little outings must do you   good, especially as Lady R. seems so very nice. But if  you find it affects you sleeping in any way, little kid,  by being kept up late, don't for a second hesitate to ask  her let you go to bed as early as you like - I am sure  it is what she herself would wish you to do.  The Red X  matinee certainly know how to charge, as I call £2.2  a lot for a matinee, but of course it was a very special  reason & cause. Go & see, or write to Mrs Cliff when  you can, as I'm sure she means well - you know  that my A.D.C's mother, named her Father!! Me lady  I believe she so much objects to!!  I got your wire saying you had received mine
with the message for all your Xmas cards. I was so   glad to know that it was evidently what was wanted &  that New Zealanders were included.  Col. Cole told me he had been so awfully glad to see you   at St. Thomas', do go there again to see him if you have time  when you are next in town.  Would you send me from a chemist's a small bottle to  Tatcho - or any such thing for my hair, as I have nothing of  the sort here - except some kerosine oil!!! So tell them  to send a half size bottle I think it is called -  You are sending me a Lett's Diary No. 35 for next year,  aren't you? Did you get a letter I sent you to see from my Uncle George  about Sir Ian's despatch?  I enclose two letters you may care to see - one is from  this funny little man - rather a wag - who was our   telegraphist in Lord K's home all the time I was in  Pretoria, & who, I told you, sent me one of those photos of  myself swimming marked "Photo by Mrs Pankhurst"!  I have been having a horrid & very anxious time lately   about which I cannot write, about our future plans.  I am  not at all happy about them & they are giving me much anxiety.  I spend a part of every day tearing about in a destroyer to see  my Corps Commanders & it was delightful the welcome I got  when I went back to Anzac 2 days ago, after being away  some time with Lord K & knocking about between here  & other places. We have just had a fearful storm - thank goodness  I landed before it was very bad! Goodbye my own little wife. All  my love to you. Ever your very loving Will - 1.a.m.
