
Author: William Birdwood
Date: 15 June 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:
 
We have been having for us a comparatively
quiet time of it lately as I fancy the 
Turks have come to the conclusion it is rather
expensive work attacking us. They have lost
so much on every occasion - more than I at
first thought. From letters we have found on
dead Turks we find that time after time there
are entries  of their losses, and on one occasion
when I attacked some of their trenches & had
a good fight but of which I didn't think very
much, they acknowledged to have had 600
killed & 2000 wounded. We cannot advance
until a general movement can be made &
in the mean time the Turks have made 
tremendous entrenchments all round 
my position & unless I can suceed in 
a plan I have made I shall have the
very greatest difficulty & suffer heavy losses
when we have to advance. In the mean
time I am doing all I can to make them waste their ammunition & resort to one ruse  after another - Last night I should think   they must have got through about 100,000 rounds   as we managed to scare them properly &  think they were going to be attacked in force  tonight. I really do mean to Take one of their   Trenches. I hope they will then think it is only  a cry of wolf & not be fully ready. The  Turks we find are full of respect for my  men as we have just seen in one of their   reports that they look upon them as fiercer  fighters than the Bulgarians. The Germans  had told the poor Turks that the Australians   were savages, that they never gave quarter   Cutting the throats of all prisoners & that some   of them were even cannibals! This was of   course to prevent desertion as I fancy a   lot of these men would really give anything to   come in if they dared do so. I cant think   their hearts are in it & it is only the German   influence & Enver Pasha who makes them   stick to it. The big Russian reverse in Salicia   is a real bad business as far as we are   concerned for we had looked to them to   co-operate near Constantinople & by having   a good force there to prevent the Turks sending   more troops here. As it is I much fear they   will not have men to send there for a long time & more Turks can then flow down   here - unless of course Greece, Bulgaria &   Romania or any of them should come down   really strong on one side. Greece I fancy   will do so very soon & will then possibly   be followed by one of the others. We still   get a lot of casualties I am sorry to say   daily but not nearly so many as we had   the first fortnight here. The annoying part   is that so many of those now killed or   wounded are from stray shots which is how   poor Genl Bridges was killed which is so annoying.   I made an attack on some of the enemys   trenches last night & was successful up   to a certain exten in that we got right in   & turned the Turks out - but they came   along in large numbers with an enormous   number of very large bombs which they hurled   into the trench from all sides as they had a   regular ramification of trenches around their   firing trench. My fellows stuck this till   dawn & then I am sorry to say decided they   could do so no longer & came away which   annoyed me very much as I had hoped
to make this a pivot from which to   seize a lot more trenches further on.  However  we killed a good many of them & captured   24 prisoners which all counts & we didnt   lose much ourselves. 
Will.