
Author: William Birdwood
Date: 6 June 1915.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

I fancy that we here, are in a very different position to the senior Generals in France who have to remain right away in rear of the centre of their long lines.  Here we are cramped up into rather a small position into almost any part of which the enemys guns can reach us & this will be worse as we advance for I fear their heavy artillery on the Khalid Bahr plateaux & from the big Forts at the Dardanelles will then be able to get at us a bit more & we will have to dig in very carefully., also with these troops I have to, & must go round them daily & satisfy myself how they are getting on & I feel it up to me to share with them in everything. In a regular big fight it is different - I then cannot of course be in the trenches, as I must be somewhere central to control things generally, which can only be done by telephone, as there is nowhere, where one can see more than a small portion of the firing line at a time. The men are so well fed that they are quite happy - & indeed I do 
feel that we are all quite a happy family here together. You cant treat these fellows like regular soldiers, with barrack square discipline, but you can get a lot of intelligence out of them by more casual methods. Bombs are a present our bete-noir - as they are of the Turks. I took a Turkish Trench the other day & our boys made themselves quite happy there with many sandbag traverses from enfilade machine gun fire, etc, & were I hoped quite comfortably settled, when the Turks began throwing large bombs into the trenches, from all directions, & simply blew them out of it as nearly all got badly wounded.  Col: Lotbiniěre has now made an excellent gun cotton bomb for us - which bursts, with tremendous force, & I fancy we have blown many Turks to pieces with these, & prisoners tell us they are terrified of them, and are now making head cover, in all their trenches to protect themselves. Their guns have been rather quieter lately, but have just begun again & as I write are dropping lots of shells into the water, only about 20 yards away, but at an angle at which they just dont get the beach itself, though they are falling all around, our boats & piers - and 
have very rapidly dispersed a lot of men, who were bathing at the time!  I really do not foresee where the end of all this, is to be unless Turkey collapses which I fancy is easily possible, & if Greece, or the Balkan states come in, I should say very probable - a Greek force landed near here would make all the difference, and I dont think the Turks would last long after it, as we should be able to cut off their supplies, otherwise, if it is to be a case of driving them from one position to another, we may take any time over it.