
Author: William Birdwood Date: 6 June 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text: 
 My own darling girl. I have just got your letter of 20th & very glad to get it too, for it seemed such a long time since I had heard. I am awfully annoyed though to know that by then you had got no letters at all from me here since our landing.  I have written you a lot &  I do hope they will all turn up in due course.  The first one must have been about 3 days after we landed, so you should easily have got it before 20th May, but I know the posts are very bad operating, worse from here than to us - at all events as far as your letters are concerned, for sending them through the War Office as you do they sometimes come in the special King's Messenger bag to Sir Ian & I get them well before the ordinary mail. I fancy that we here are in a very different position to the senior Generals in France who have to remain right away in rear of the centre of their long lines.  Here we are cramped up into rather a small position into almost any part of which the enemy's guns can reach us & this will be worse as we advance for I fear their heavy Artillery on the Khalid Bahr plateaux & from the big forts atthe Dardanelles will then be able to get
at us a bit more, & we will have to dig in very carefully.  Also with these troops I have to & must go round them daily to satisfy myself how they are getting on, & I feel it is up to me to share with them in everything. In a regular big fight it is different.  I then can not of course be in the trenches as I must be somewhere central to control things generally which can only be done by telephone, 
as there is nowhere, where one can see more than a small portion of the firing line at a time, so you needn't bother about me little one in that way.  If however I couldn't go round my trenches & didn't know for myself exactly how each one was situated - how it was held - what was to be done if it was heavily attacked or taken etc.  I should be miserable, & I am sure that when the troops all realize that one is up & about among them all day they must be much happier, than
if they thought one was sitting still & letting others run [[?]]. As a matter of fact though I always say that once in most of the trenches one is in the safest place for they are now very well made & you hear bullets come in with thuds on the parapet outside with the greatest comfort. Going round one lot yesterday who had no enemy's trenches quite close to them, I told them I thought their's was the health resort of the force,
which quite seemed to amuse them. The men are so well fed that they are quite happy, & indeed I do feel that we are all quite a happy family here together - you can't treat these fellows like regular soldiers with barrack square discipline, but you can get a lot of intelligence out of them by more casual methods. Bombs are at present our bete-noir - as they are of the Turks. I took a Turkish trench a few days ago & our boys made themselves quite happy there with many sand bag havens from enfilade machine-gun fire etc & were I hoped quite comfortably settled,  when the Turks began throwing large bombs into the trench from all directions & swiftly blew them out of it, as nearly all got badly wounded.  Old Lotbiniere has now made an excellent gun-cotton bomb for us which bursts with tremendous force & I fancy we have blown many Turks to pieces with them, & their prisoners tell us they are terrified of them & are now making head cover in all their trenches to protect themselves.  Their guns have been rather quieter lately, but have just begun again & as I write, they are dropping lots of shells into the water only about 20 yards off me, but at an angle at which they just don't get the beach itself, though they are falling all around our boats & piers, and have very rapidly dispersed a lot of men who were bathing at the time!
I really do not foresee where the end of all this is to be unless Turkey collapses which I fancy is easily possible - and if Greece & the Balkan states come in.  I should say very probable.  A week hence the Greek elections take place & after them I fancy Greece is very nearly sure to come in & join us, & Roumania will do so also.  A Greek force landed near here would make all the difference & I don't think the Turks would last long after it, as we should be able to cut off their supplies. Otherwise if it is only to be a case of driving them from one position to another, we may take any time over it. I have been so sorry to see poor old Alfred Edwards' boy has been killed in France.  Their only child & I know how devoted to & proud of him they were.  I fear it will be a terrible blow to them - they are still in Rhodesia. I see too that young Frank Mandall has been wounded & Kenneth is again, but I hear he isn't at all bad. I think you might very well all go over to France for the summer holidays, some little fishing village in Normandy or Brittany would I imagine be quite lovely & you would all enjoy it thoroughly - but of course Chris would not learn anything like the same amount of French when you are all together as he would if by himself in an entirely French family.  In Brittany you wuld be quite safe & I believe it is quite a lovely country all about there; & very nice people,
and if you all do go I tell you what I think you might very well do, & that is to send Chris from there just for a week or 10 days to the Stappers.  I believe even that short time would do him good & get him a little into the way of thinking in French, which is what is really wanted.  He would like his time there too I am sure, so you might think of it, & by all means all of you go over there - and why not get Mrs Muir to go over with you all?  I believe she'd love it too.  Mind you let me know as soon as you have got my first letter from here as I shall be so disgusted if you don't get them, when I have written so many.  Sir Ian & Capt. P. would of course get their letters sent home by King's Messenger but I can't do that. I think it was most awfully nice of the Newton Moores to have motored you down to Chichester & I expect you quite enjoyed it, driving through all that lovely country. The Australians are a nice lot too - use dreadful bad language - and very keen on hearing about everything. Fancy you meeting old Miss Knollys at Sir Dighton's.  There friendship has I believe been the cause of smiles for many years among the Royal household & no one even quite knows why they didn't get married some years ago.  I believe at one time they had a gravel & to make it up old Sir Dighton had a beautiful new bath room made for her, at I think Windsor, & took one of his lady friends in to show it to her. She was rather surprised to find he had an awful mirrors all round so that poor old Miss Charlotte could not help seeing herself everywhere!! I will look out for young Hugh Tate if I come across
"Implacable", but she hasn't been near me so far & I don't know if she is now up in these parts or not. I don't know who the Lady Robinson is you mention, but I expect her husband is probably one of the Australian Agents-General
like Sir N. Moore.  Sir has told me his wife & her sisters were running a small hospital on their own at Malta for our men, but I could see he wasn't quite happy about it on account of the expense & said he didn't think that it would be able to afford it very long as they would find it more expensive than they thought - and he said he thought this war would really mean comparative ruin to all of us, & that we should eventually find ourselves so heavily taxed to pay expenses that none of us would have a penny left - so it behoves us all to look out! As a matter of fact they are most awfully well off & I fancy have at least £10,000 a year of their own.  He jumped at a proposal I made him, that I might perhaps be able to arrange for some of our Australian nurses to go to the house & so save them the expenses of their own - however he finally decided to think over it, as he was going to see Treves about it. Goodbye my own little lamb. Lots & lots of love [[Dear?]] always. Ever your very loving old, Will.


Mediterranean Expdy Force