Author: William Birdwood
Location: Anzac Cove Gallipoli, Turkey. Date: 15 May 1915.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:
 My own darling girl. Very little to tell you from here as we lead a curiously monotonous life with little variation but the amount of shooting going on. I was so disappointed when the last mail came in to get a letter in your writing & to find it only contained a wretched Company's notice!! I am sure you will have written a letter at the same time & that it will have miscarried as so many seem to do - though I hope they generally turn up later on. I have been unable to think of any more from here as I am still so weak in numbers. This is most annoying & indeed serious for while I have had to stand on the defensive the Turks - there are about 20,000 of them, have made entrenchments all round me & I can now only advance by means of a really big fight & breaking through an entrenched position is always a most difficult job. They still do a powerful lot of shooting - in fact since we landed on 25th I do not think there has been a single half hour during which they have not fired - at times it dies down to a few shots & then breaks at out into a regular roar which goes on for hours & which as you can imagine is rather trying to one's nerves as you never know you wont get a sudden message to say they have broken through the line somewhere and are coming on me in force. A good deal of their firing though is very wild & goes right out to sea - in fact I find my boys at times try to draw them, by firing a few rounds from a maxim
and then start cheering! The Turks at once think we mean to attack & will very often start away firing 1000's of rounds into the air, which shows they are not the best of troops. I will say my boys started doing the same thing at first, but I think I have now stopped them. I am sorry to say I still get daily casualties & most of them from not near the trenches by dropping shots & shrapnel. They have now got some guns which enfilade my beach & cause great trouble. I have all the supplies arranged in a series of traverses all along the beach so that whenever shrapnel starts the men can always run in behind shelter, so it should only be those who are unlucky enough to be caught by the first round who should come to harm, but so many do & I lost a very good young Engineer Officer yesterday. The shelling only comes  on in bursts of about half an hour to an hour. Between whiles the men off duty manage to get bathes & it is most comical to see the shelling start again when there are 100 men in the water!! It has begun once or twice when I have been having my own bath, so one doesn't  go far out & can get back to cover quickly. Since I have been writing this I have been watching - my "dugout" is only 10 yards from the water - men bathing & shrapnel suddenly starting - it makes one laugh to see 100 naked men tearing out of the water & rushing to the nearest shelter they can find - very often leaving all they possess on the beach! We hope we are disheartening these Turks & I feel sure a great many of them would much like to chuck it  
if only they could, but the Germans wont let them. They must be an extraordinary callous lot for Onslow managed to shoot a couple of them a day or two ago & almost immediately after, their bodies were just thrown out over the parapet of their trench to lie there a yard off. The stench in some of our trenches is in places too awful & at times I have really been very near absolutely sick - dead Turks are lying about all over the place in numbers & in places I fear some of our own men too, whom we can not get near to bry bury. We always try when we can & some times succeed at night, but I have to tell them it isn't worth while getting a live man killed to bury a dead one, & the Turks always seem to pot our fellows when they go out on such work.  There is certainly one comforting thing, my P.M.O. tells me that though the smell is very unpleasant you get accustomed to it & it is not unhealthy! I'm afraid I could never get accustomed to it! I hear the French "75's" peeling away down in the South: they are extraordinary in that way & seem to love firing away their Artillery for no real reason, but just to cover their front - fortunately they have lots of ammunition which is more than I have - but even then it seems to me all wrong that they should go on firing away as they do. It is just that they get jumpy
and are afraid without reason of being attacked & keep shouting for help when it isn't wanted. Poor Genl. d'Amade has had to be recalled. I fancy he is useless & I hear a younger & better man replaces him. I do wonder how you are now sleeping little one? I do hope you are all right & have not got into bad nights again? With all the quiet at Thurlby you should be all right. I used to sleep badly when we first landed but am all right now, & managed to get my sleep while the Turks fire away harmlessly into the air to keep their courage up! The rascals shot a hole through my periscope this morning - they don't like us using them a bit, while it is a great comfort to sit down quite safely behind the parapet with your periscope up & see well all round the Country. Old Lotbiniěre has made so many now that you see them all along our trenches - most annoying for the Turks. I send you a copy of my official report on our landing which you may care to see & keep - also a little map showing where we are and a sketch of some of my trenches, from which you will see in what difficult country I am. Give all my news to your old Father, who I am sure would love to be here & see all this fighting. Goodbye my own little sweetheart all my love to you & the children. 
Ever your very loving old,
Will