
Author: William Birdwood
Date: 29 March 1918
Location: France
Rank: Field Marshall.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:


1st ANZAC CORPS B.E.F., FRANCE 29 March 1918 1918 My own darlingest. No letter at all from you since I left, so I expect the mails are all over the place, though I had one or two from home. I know you will have written from the Robinson's & I am so longing to  hear that you got back all safely from Blythe & were all right there till you left to return to Thurlby Iv I hope yesterday. I told Chris to write to you last night about the King's visit. He came over quite suddenly & unexpectedly midday yesterday & after some lunch with Genl. Plumer came to tea with us here. He was most awfully nice & natural as he always is & seemed to enjoy his little tea thoroughly. He was full of conversation & I thought very
pleased to see Chris who behaved all right! Col. Wigram was astonished to find him here having last seen him as a small boy in Simla. The King was here for about ¾ an hour & returns to England tomorrow hence one can talk of his visit as he will be back & the announcement made in the papers before you get this. It is I think a good thing that he should come over to be seen by the troops in a crisis like  this, & though cheery, he naturally could not help being anxious. There is no more news & at present no news is good news for it is impossible to foresee what the future may not contain. I expect 
to be leaving here soon, but nothing definite as yet. I stupidly gave my Secretary - Capt. Ward - a fortnight's leave when I left when he rushed off to Italy & we haven't so far been able to get him back! It's rather a nuisance as he keeps all my papers, & all the many Australian enquiries get hung up till his return - however I hope we may hear of him in a day or so. Did you by any chance go to see my portrait with Lady Robinson before you left town?  & I do hope you told Mrs Buckley
how sorry I was not to have seen her. I am so afraid she might be feeling hurt, & after all her many kindnesses to us all I wouldn't have her hurt for anything.  I suppose you never thought of asking her for the small "Australia" badges I wrote you about for Genl. White? By the bye I think I left at Thurlby the book I brought over & was reading - I am not quite sure of the exact title, but it was something like "Australian Commonwealth" 
by "Bernard Wise". I may have left it in my room, but more probably in the hall. If  it is not there then I must have taken it down to the Robinsons & left it there. Would you look for it without fail little one  - &  if not at Thurlby write & ask Lady R. about it & let me know results? I don't want to lose it, & it has no name in it.  Give the enclosed to your Father - the remarks about the pig keeping may amuse him. I also enclose a
letter from old Mrs  McIIwraith, who you will see writes so nicely & we really must go there one day.  Goodbye my own sweetheart & all my love to you little one. Ever your very lovig old, Will. 