Author: J T Maude
Date: 16 October 1917
Nationality: British

Text:



General Headquarters. Mesopotamian Expeditionary Force. 16th October, 1917.    My dear friend   I wrote to acknowledge your last letter to me on September 5th and to give you any scraps of news that we may have here. But I hear now that the ship which was conveying our letters written about that date has been burnt at sea and therefore my missive alll not reach you.  We have been fairly grilled this summer, and especially in July there was a very severe heat wave which carried off quite a large number even of the strongest. But that is all now past history and the weather is becoming daily cooler and more enjoyable, and we shall soon have an almost perfect climate till the rains come.  In consequence of the great heat operations were generally speaking impossible during the summer months, although we had to read just from time to time owing to the Russian vagaries and at first the Arab tribesmen were troublesome  and had to be punished. So the troops were able to have a rest which they had well earned after all their strenuous work last winter, and by settling them down Into camps in good time we avoided much of the sickness which we had last year. In fact except for the heat wave in July when we had so many cases of heat stroke and heat exhaustion our sick list was extraordinarily low all through the summer and we have had no epidemics such as cholera, scurvy, plague, etc.  But though the troops have been resting, behind the Army and here at headquarters things have been busier if possible than before. There has been so much to reorganise, develop and prepare for the future, and especially as
regards our inland water transport and railways work has been most strenuous.  A very low river has been somewhat a source of anxiety but the way it has been tackled by the river fleet has been little short of marvellous. The river is now beautifully buoyed and groundings have been few and far between, although we have had to lighten our barges to accommodate them to the amount of water in the river. Then the railways too have gone ahead like wildfire and the way that all have worked through this intense heat has been most praiseworthy. The benefits which have accrued to the Army in consequence are obvious.  Here at Headquarters we have had an immensity to do, first taking in hand Baghdad both from the civil and military aspect, then getting things straight behind,  then reorganising the troops and arranging for new formations, then systematising  the supplies throughout the country - and in connection with this we have placed a large area under cultivation which ought to supply us with all the grain and forage which we require next year. It meant a big outlay but it was a good businesslike proposition and the relief to the Empire and to our communications inasmuch as we shall be self-supporting in this respect is obvious. It took some time to get sanction for the scheme and so I went ahead on my own responsibility and belated sanction came eventually. Then plans for the future have been absorbing one's interest, for and though the troops were resting we have had to get a certain amount of work out of them during the summer months.  First of all I went round all the fronts and we designed a multitude of strong positions which we shall be able to use as pivots during the forthcoming operations. The troops worked on those during the evenings and early mornings and at night during the great heat so as to keep them fit, and now I have been round them all and they are very strong.  We got a considerable number of all ranks off to India during the summer on leave and this has helped to keep up the efficiency of the Force considerably, especially in the case of those who have been on service a long time and who needed a rest and change. Then the troops too during the summer seemed quite different to last year, when they could hardly put one foot before the other. This year they were cheery and full of spirits all the time and games and recreations of all  sorts continued throughout the summer. Football competitions, fishing, athletic sports, cinemas, concert parties, etc. all helped all helped to keep them amused and interested, and they are now in tearing spirits and ready for anything.  The other day we began our second innings successfully by an attack on the Turkish troops at Ramadie, where we got the whole lot, only a few escaping by swimming the river. It was a big success and the troops were splendidly handled. It meant a lot of preparation as Ramadie is 70 miles from Baghdad and communications are vile, but we had been working at it for a long time getting everything ready and our exertions were amply repaid, for we surrounded the whole force, and this initial success is bound to have a good effect on the forthcoming operations.  Altogether we got 13 guns, 12 Machine guns, and some 3,400 prisoners, besides masses of ammunition, arms, equipment, railway material, engineering stores, 2 1aunches, 2 barges, etc., etc.  I was much interested in all you told me about your own doings in France, and I can assure you that we watch your movements with very great interest here. Lately you seem to have been doing splendidly and what is so satisfactory is that it is always a record of progress, even though slight, and this must in time wear down the enemy and make him feel that it is a hopeless task.  The Russians here go from bad to worse and we have had at last to make up our minds not to depend on them for anything. I tried up to the last moment to get them to come in even with a small portion of their force and do something, but I am afraid that however much they may wish to do so they are quite incapable of any effort. It is very unsatisfactory, for I feel that if they had only come along last spring or even if now they would make a strong offensive we should very soon bring this campaign to an end.  We are looking forward to hearing good news from Gaza before long, where they must be about due now to make a move.  Yrs sincerely,  J.T. Maude  Maude   To Lieut.-General Sir W.R. Birdwood, K.C.S.I., K.C.M.C,. C.B., C.I.E., D.S.0., Commanding 1st Anzac Corps, British Army in the Field, FRANCE.  
