Author: A W McGregor
Date: 18 January 1917
Location: El Arish
Nationality: Australian.

Text:




El Arish  18th January 1917.  Dear General,  It was very thoughtful of  you indeed to think of sending me  an Xmas card, and I did appreciate  getting it a couple of days ago when  it arrived. I was glad to see that  practically all the names on it were  those who had been with you at Anzac  and Imbros, and I recognised them  nearly all.  —  I do hope, Sir, that  matters are going well with you in  France. I often try and imagine what  it must be like, but it must be absolutely  impossible for a person to picture  things unless he has seen them himself. If
only one could think that this year  will see the Bosche properly broken,  it may be so but he seems to have a  lot of kick left l in him yet. —  We have been having a fairly  strenuous time here and had a toughish  fight at Rafa a week or so ago. The  Anzacs of course and the New Zealanders  did splendidly, could not have done  better, and the whole fight turned out  a great success but a stiffer one than  anticipated. We all became infantry  once our horses had got us here, there and  our Brigade had to do a frontal assault  on the trenches over 1000 yards a of very  bare ground. We were lucky to get off  with as few casualties as we did and 
had 45 out of about 300. That must  be infinite sixmal compared with what  you have in France but seemed quite a  lot to us here. The Turk put up a very   stubborn fight as he always seems to do  in defence but was outnumbered and  outgunned. —  It has been extraordinary interesting  here for the last six weeks, and this  place is quite the nicest spot I have been  at in the desert. It should be still more  interesting if we are going to push on  but there seems to be some doubt as to that. —  When I was with you at Anzac  and Imbros, I used to write a sort of  diary which I sent Home instead of   a letter. When I was Home on leave I  found my Father had been amusing
himself typing it, and I am asking  him to send you a copy with  this letter which I would be awfully  pleased if you would accept. It has  of course only  been seen by my family.  Have just been reading Bean's  book, "Light & Shade in War" which  I received last mail from my Aunt Jean.  Some of the sketches I thought very pretty.  I do hope you are in the very  best of health, Sir  Yours sincerely  A. W McGregor 