Author: C Nabokoff
Date: 16 May 1917
Nationality: British

Text:

May 16. 1917.  My dear General,  I can hardly tell  you how much I appreciate  your kindness in writing  to congratulate me on  my new appointment,  and how grateful I am  for this new token of your  friendship which I have  always valued so highly.  It is of course a promotion,  but nevertheless a great
personal calamity ! It is  a mistake for a diplomat,  who is a bird of passage,  to get deeply attached to  a country and to his friends  in that country, and I am  now paying the penalty for  having made that mistake.  All my best friends, those  for whom I care most, are  here or at the British  front in France; with the  latter I have kept in constant  touch, and it breaks my  heart to have to part with  them and break these  connections. Also, I have tried,  in the discharge of my   duty, to depart from the  conventional and antiquated  methods of diplomacy, and  to come in close touch not  merely with officialdom,  but with public bodies in  and outside London, with  the press etc. And I must  admit with deep regret  that after my departure  there will be no one here to  pick up the threads that  will have to be broken. The  situation in Russia is far  from stable, and in my   modest opinion my
Government are making a   mistake in sending our  Ambassador who will find  his "trappings" rather an  embarrassment than a source  of authority. They had a   "provisional" representative   - a much more suitable position,  and they ought to have stuck  to it. The news comes today   that the Foreign Minister  has resigned, and this leaves  me with a faint flicker of  hope that the Ambassador  will not come after all,  and my appointment will  be cancelled for the time being.
The idea of going to Berne  doesnt appeal to me in  the least. it is a boche-ridden  centre of international  intrigue, and diplomacy is  in my opinion incompatible  with intrigue, with anything  that isn't absolutely sincere  and straightforward. There  is only one post I would  have accepted with comparative  satisfaction, and that is  Washington, where there is  much useful and far -  reaching work to be done,  and where I would have  been absolutely "at home", as 
I have had ample experience in dealing with Americans. However…. one is not in a position, especially at the present moment, to refuse to serve the country in whatever capacity it may be deemed suitable to be  placed into. There is a great deal of anxious criticism in Government circles and in the press here of the state of affairs in Russia. The country is passing through a tremendous crisis, the task of evolving order out
of chaos in wartime is one of such magniture that no single brain can grasp it. At this time, we need the fullest sympathy and loyalty of our friends and Allies. Unfortunately, I  must admit that certain people are rather inclined to ask too much! … So far, Russia has escaped many pitfalls and traps, the Army has remained loyal, the temporary and inevitable breakdown of the discipline has not caused any grave disasters, and 
I remain confident that the Army will yet show its striking power. Germany is working hard to prolong this state of anarchy and confusion, but I am too deeply convinced of the genius of the Russian people to admit for one second that common sense and elementary patriotism will be wanting. It is true that the Germans have withdrawn several divisions to the West, which has rendered the task of the Armies in that theatre
more arduous. But this, I am certain, is only temporary, and we must, in justice to Russia,  bear in mind that in 1915 she withstood the onslaught of superior forces for several months… without a shell or a cartridge! I have always believed that the death blow to Germany would be dealt by the British Army, and the magnificent power and heroism of your troops have proved that I was right! On the other hand, it has been conclusively proved that
the old regime in Russia was treacherous, and that they were working for a separate peace with Germany. However difficult, therefore, the process of reconstruction may be, our Allies have every reason to be grateful that the overthrow of the corrupt and contemptible autocracy has taken place in time to save Russia from an irreparable military collapse and a revolution which would have been the more terrible the longer we would have waited.
I shall write to you as soon as I know for  certain whether and when I am to leave London. With my heartfelt thanks and warmest wishes Yours very sincerely, C.Nabokoff