 Author: William Birdwood
Date: 28 June 1915.
Nationality: Australian

Text:
  My own darling girl,  Some real hot weather we are having here & all work  is now a case of shirt sleeve parades. I'm so glad I bought my helmet  here from Egypt, as we had heard those were not really necessary here &   I daresay they are not, as many still wear caps, but I'm sure it is  much better to have a helmet. What we should do without the sea to  swim in, I really do not know - it's a sin since it's being so dangerous.  & I had 3 men killed swimming yesterday - It's only just the first shell, as  after it men can take cover, but a good deal of the bathing is now  done at night to avoid risk. I think they have taken to shelling  us generally a good deal more than previously with some guns  which outrange mine. - They won't come up to an attack though.  Early yesterday they tried to screw themselves up to one. At 1.a.m they  started bombing some of my trenches like bs devil, but for every  bomb they threw in my boys hurled 2 or 3 back. Then at 3a.m.  their Artillery began- smashed down some trenches & am sorry to  say, caused a good many casualties. Then at 5.a.m. their rifle  fire attack started & they expended thousands of rounds of ammunition  but though we could see their bayonets all ready fixed in their  trenches yet they evidently couldn't be got to rise to a charge  across at us. We will find them all right & ready, though to  oppose us most stoutly when it comes to our turn to have  to attack their trenches & they have always said that  Turks are at their best when holding trenches.
You will see that I have done all I can to find out about poor "Punch's" husband and I fear there can be no doubt about it that he was killed. There were a tremendous lot killed on 25 - 26 April down at "Y" landing where some of Genls. Hunter- Westons & Paris' Divisions landed & I fancy he must have been killed then buried in a common grave with many others. Such a pity too, as from his Colonel's letter, he was quite an exceptionally fine fellow. General Paris to whom I wrote, commands  the Marine Division. Poor woman I do feel so sorry for her, & I suppose she is left very badly off - any children? How are you sleeping now little one. Well, I do hope - and Nancy tells me you are all well, while May in writing the other day said you both looked so fit & pretty - ahem!- You simply must sleep all right. By the bye have you had Chris' teeth looked at lately? If no do write to Mr Rintunl & tell him to send Chris along to the dentist at once just to be overhauled. As I am sure this is so very essential with all boys & should be done constantly with them - every six months I think. Talking of teeth - I wonder if you'd look in the little brown leather box in which I keep my studs etc - & which I sent home from Egypt in this rather nice brown leather squarish box. In this small box you will find an old tooth plate of mine, which you might send me- not that I want it at present, but you never know 
when you may not break your plate or chip a  tooth off it, & if I did this now, I should be quite done, so always like to have the old one handy - See it is very much wrapped up in cotton wool, as it's no good risking breaking it. There is a small middy here who reminds me so much of Chris & who tells me his father was at Clifton. A boy called Bush who  says he will be 16 in August, but who really looks 10. Such a tiny little child & yet very much all there, so much so that they call him "Commander Bush", for he commands everything! They each have to take charge of a picket boat & I fancy it does them a lot of good having a little show of their own while so young, & teaches them to be very spry too, for it's not too easy manoeuvering their boats about & alongside ships when big seas are on - at present though, it is always very calm. I had this little chap to come in to dinner with me one night, which he quite enjoyed & made laugh with his schoolboy talk. "All the other "shots'" etc. I'm very glad you sent £20 to the Aust. War Contingent Association - that was quite right - But don't run away with the idea that we are too well off! Just at present while I am here a good deal of money - practically all my pay is being paid into the Bank & accumulating there, though I may have to draw a certain 
amount here at any time - But you must remember this will not always go on and we will have heavy expenses later on - going out to India - setting up house there again somewhere (we still have to pay for Somerleyton this year) - getting all our kit about India - etc. etc - while all ordinary expenses are bound to go up enormously - Also my little one though I have every idea & intention of coming through everything perfectly safely, yet you must look all possibilities squarely in the face & do what you can to provide for them. With shells & bullets constantly flying about, & likely to do so, as far as one can see for a long time yet there may always be a chance of catching one - though the chances are of course very much the other way - But if anything happened to me either at the war or ordinarily in any other way, my big pay would stop at once, & you would only have the much smaller pension. So I should like to think that you had everything possible, and any accumulated pay now, would be a tremendously good thing & would mean so much. Read the article I enclose which I happened to see in the Times this morning, and which really is a think. Every single English man & woman should think of & keep in mind for the sake of the country. Don't you imagine for for one second that I am hinting or thinking of you being extravagant, for indeed I am not - for not only do I think, but I know you to be so very much the opposite & you never spend money unnecessarily- The Times article however puts things in rather a new light & shows how necessary it is to buy nothing that has to be imported - i.e. for which money has to be sent out of India England. Of course there is practically nothing you can do personally in this regard as I don't suppose you eat or  wear imported things - but many people might help - e.g. the planting of vegetables everywhere possible - rearing fowls  for eggs etc. would mean a lot of money not going abroad. If all tried in their tiny way, as all do in Germany, the total results would be enormous. Then if Watson cares to invest your money in Govt. Loans well & good - It is lending money to the country where it is wanted - i.e. if this loan has not already been fully subscribed which I rather believe to have been the case. That however he would know all about, & arrange for you if necessary. Your father too, I fancy uses practically no imported things, while I am sure he will be all on for having no unnecessary waste in the kitchen - coal etc - etc. Which are all things the Germans now save on so much - I don't quite know why I have written all this - but it certainly isnt because I want to say you are extravagant in any way, my little one, for I know you are not. I told you I think that I got back my own Australian & New Zealand troops all right again - In fact I put  them thro train a month ago after von Sanders big attack on me, as I felt it safer having them here in case he came on again in large numbers. I then got rid of the two Brigades of the Naval Division & was not at all sorry to do so, as they were nearly useless, though I believe they have improved by now. Punch's husband belonged to one of these, but not to any of the Battalions which I had with me. I am glad Nancy is to make herself useful in the Harefield Park hospital - it is just as well every girl should do something now a days if she can & down there it should be healthy & the work will do her good. A good deal of the correspondence about the starting of that hospital passed through my hands when I was in Egypt Mr B-L write to me about it, telling me all about his vegetable & fowl raising arrangements. I told him how grateful all the Australians were to him.  
I'm glad too that Mrs Freemantle is down there, as she can always look after Nancy a bit if necessary, & she will be able to go down to tea with her etc she is tired-out I daresay it will be harder work at first than Nancy has bargained for - but it's an excellent thing that she has taken  it up - and very good of old Sir G. Reid to have bothered to get it for her. I am glad you went to that Memorial service at St. Paul's as the Australians & Sir G.R. will have liked it. And I hope you will have gone on to Clifton for Chris' [[?common]] after. I am afraid you will not have got my letter suggesting your going on from there to Isabel Vaughan- Hughes in time, or it would have been nice to go on there  in all that hot weather. Poor little Chris he was evidently very keen on your going down there & staying as long as possible & I do hope you were able to put in the two days he wanted. I wish you had been able to see Lord K. while in town - but I fancy he has few spare moments & that can't well be helped, but I'm glad you saw Fitz. I had a long & interesting letter from Moncount Butler who had seen & dined with K. I write very happily. A wire has come saying I have been made a G.C.M.G., & that is no end of a "bug" - if it's really true, though there seems to be an idea it was to be a K.C.M.G. The former is the sort of thing they give to Ambassadors Sir G. Reid etc I see Smith-Dorian & Will [[?]] have  been given it, but Sir Ian thinks Sir John Maxwell & I may have got "K's" & not "G's" - but we have heard nothing official. I got a very nice wire from Sir G. Reid of congratulations, but he didn't say what for, so we shall not know till we get the London Gazette. I had rather thought I might have been promoted Lieut-General instead of getting any further decoration, & it really would have been more useful - though I feel that any reward is premature - and too it makes one very sad to think you get a reward for all the good & hard work done by so many officers & men, only very few of whom can hope for any reward - and many of the best of whom have alas been killed. But that must always be the case in war. I wired to Sir G.R. & told him I felt I had done so little while the troops so few of whom can be rewarded have done so much. A great deal of firing all this morning - bullets & shells flying about a lot, as I have been making a demonstration to help an attack by the Southern force & have succeeded in getting into the Turkish nicely. Goodbye my one sweet wife. Lots  & lots of love to you always. Ever your very loving old Will