

Author: William Birdwood  Date: 30 September 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:
 My own darling little wife.  28 today!! Just think of it - 30th September  your birthday and 28. I am sure you don't feel older  or look it - and it is all that, that counts for age - not  actual years- & I have never known anyone remain such a real  kid as you do. I am glad too to say I feel quite youthful  again after having been rather old for a bit! You will I  fancy be spending your birthday at Thurlby & Kates quietly  with I fancy only your father & Judith there, as I imagine the  others will all be away. Here we are having a quiet day of  it too - or rather it has begun so, for one can never tell to what  a state of "hate" the Turkish guns (which are all manned by  Germans) may or may not work up to by the evening - Some days  they are quiet - often they fire away a lot. I fancy it depends a  good deal on how much ammunition they have in hand- The day  before yesterday they put in over 200 rounds at one Battery of mine  just above my headquarters in an hour or so, but did very little  harm. Yesterday they got a shell right into Walker's dugout while  he was there, wrecking the whole place & burying him, but luckily   he was untouched! Another of my Generals - an Australian  called Ryrie got a 75 gun shrapnel bullet in his throat.  It just missed the artery & is still in his throat, but  he is little the worse & it will be removed today.
A very nice fellow a Capt. Lloyd is going home today & may  take this with him. If you are in town & he writes to   arrange a meeting I hope you will see him. He was  with Genl. Maxwell's staff all the time I was in Egypt  when I saw a lot of him & he has always been fearfully  keen on being on my staff instead of on Sir Ian's where  he is. He is not a soldier - but a Warwickshire Yeoman &  an M.P. - though he looks a boy & a subaltern! He has  for a long time taken a great interest in Turkish affairs  & speaking that language fairly well is used in intelligence  & interpreting, and now goes home to see the war & foreign  offices on such matters. He is I fancy a fairly rich  man as his people are Lloyd's Bank. His wife was  a maid of honor to Queen Alexandra & is consequently  a great friend of dear old Sir Dightons & struck  me as such a very nice woman when I saw her in  Egypt for a short time- She only came there just  before we left. I only tell you all this about  him in case he arranges a meeting & he is such  a very nice fellow. I'd like you to see him  & he would give you latest news about me. 
He is an able fellow too & gets on quite the  right lines as regards political & intelligence  matters here & I hope his visit home (it is only to be  a very short one I believe) may do some real good in  one or two matters which have been neglected.  If you are in town soon, I want you to go & see a  Brig-Gen McCay 10 Carlton Horse Terrace. He is one  of my Australian, Brigadiers who did very well in all our  early work here, Col. got hit in his  leg - came back &  his leg went again, so he had to be told off & was operated  on in Malta & is now in hospital recovering. When  well enough he will go back to Australia before rejoining  me here. I'd much like you to go & see him, but  unless you are in town soon I fancy he will have  been sent off back to Australia. If by any chance he  has left. Carlton Ho. Terrace, Sir George Reid's office would  be able to give out his address. He is a lawyer by trade.  A nonplus fellow & member of the Australian Parliamente  pronounces his name Mackie.  You may like to see the enclosed form poor Lady Bridges  to whom I wrote on her husband's death- she  must be a nice woman. I have just got a letter of yours dated 15th Oct, but there are evidently  others of previous dates to which you refer. You don't mention  Lord K's speech in the House of Lords about me & my staff  & Australians. Have you seen it? I haven't seen the papers  yet - but Mrs Wagstaff sent him an extract of it which  seemed very nice & I must say it is a great thing. As  such things are not often said for nothing in Parliament.  I must try & get hold of it later & you might keep a  cutting of it, if you can find it. It should be about  15th Sept. Percy I imagine may have been in this  last big advance which seems to have been very successful   but about which we have as yet no details.  Goodbye my own little lamb. I close this advice   as George Lloyd may be able to take it  with him I fancy he will go with the King's  messenger very fast. I'll be thinking of you so  much all day of your birthday & with all  my love to you. Ever your very loving old.  Will. 