
Author: William Birdwood
Date: 11 April 1915.
Rank: Lieutenant Location: S S Minnewaska 
Nationality: Australian.

Text:
 My own darling Jenny Jane. Here am I  on still another steamer this time - and such a nice one too - over 14,000 tons, and I have not only a nice Cabin, but a small sitting room thrown in - a sort of American millionaire’s suite. I don't suppose I shall ever again travel in such luxury - and certainly once I get off this ship, it will be a case of real [[pigging?]] it, I fancy, with practically nothing more than one can take ashore on one's back for a considerable time. Later on though I daresay we will getting back here to go on - but that 
must depend entirely on how things go on land - once we can effect a landing! I went down to Alexandria from Cairo a few days before the troops to see Sir Ian. While there Onslow & I stayed with a brother & sister-in-law of Carruthers (he is a Brig-General 
now.) Very nice people: he is bigger & a good deal stouter than our Carruthers & is Manager of the big Anglo-Egyptian Bank. She is a very nice woman too - nice looking but at times painfully deaf, which makes conversation very trying though at times she suddenly seems to hear. The place reminds one very much of Bombay - the English people live right away at what might be Malaher Hill without the hill. Houses facing out (like my old Father's did) to the sea on a bay of their own, & in the early morning I
went down straight from the house, as we did at Thurlestone & had a lovely swim with the waves breaking over one as there was a bit of a storm on. I don't know that it is a place one would much care for, though it has huge advantages  over Bombay, in that it is only 5 days from home & it is never really hot. They keep such stupid office hours though. 10-12.30 - then a break & siesta French fashion (&
old Egypt is very French) till 3.30 - and work again till about 6.30. We have a big native hospital there at present for men from France en route to India. A hospital ship had just taken a lot off so only 150 were there when I went to see them - nearly all wounded but doing well. It was rather nice to 
be greeted occasionally by  beaming
smiles & to find this was from men of 
the 58th or 59th who recognised me 
from Kebat days & seemed really glad
to see one again - though all were quite pleased to find a 'General Sahib' having
a talk to them in a strange land in their ones own language. I am rather glad that I now have attached to my Army Corps
the two Native Mountain Batteries from the
Canal - & I am shortly to be joined by Genl. Cox’s Brigade to complete my numbers as I have had to leave all my mounted troops (4 Brigades) behind in Cairo for the present. I would much rather have 
had the Frontier Brigade, but Younghusband commands it, & he is senior to my two Divisional commanders. Also I do not want him. Lady McMahon & Col. Trench were in Alexandria for a day while I was there looking at a lovely house he has taken for the Summer. She was so very nice, but I am afraid she is very ill. I told you I thought she  was looking so much better - but she told me that as a matter of fact she felt so frail she really only carried on from day to day & daren't attempt to make plans or think of the future. Irene is still in bed but better. Lady Mac 
said she had heard such nice things generally  about Nancy from Simler last year. With this force I find Major Wynter who was in Kebat - he now commands a Territorial Mountain Battery. I think he told me he had left his wife & the small boy at Weymouth. Genl. Hunter-Weston has that Division - and a very good one it is, being comprised almost entirely of Regts from India & it has capital artillery. I had some Cairo photos sent you - will you please keep them for our books. Chris would I know like to see them, as he asked me to bring some home, & I didnt want to drag these about with me. By the bye I got a letter last week from the old Khansamah asking if we had entirely forgotten him:  he was 
in work at Dehli but said he would try for a job in Simler soon, as he wasn't for standing the heat of Delhi later on! You might send him a line to Edie. Has Chris been to a dentist lately? If not do please write & see that he goes to one directly he goes back to school, as I am sure it is so very important for children to be seen regularly by a dentist - it may just keep their teeth right for life. I got the two snapshots of Judith in the car
all right - but how she seems to have grown even in these few months & looks quite a pert young lady sitting up in the car instead of an infant, indeed I hardly recognised her. & I have no idea who the others are except Nanny. We have just been having two very nice services on board - Communion &
Church parade - both held by the Methodist
Chaplain- such a good fellow who spoke
very nicely to the men & I made them a small
speech too.
Well little one my own, by this time next
week we may well be engaged in heavy
fighting & I hope may have succeeded in doing
what have never yet I believe been done in
history (except perhaps at the battle of Hastings)
viz. to have effected a landing on an
open hostile shore in the face of organized
& determined opposition which we are likely
to meet: much must of course depend on
the success of our plans - in deceiving them
as to our landing place etc - while we
are very much at the mercy of the weather.
A strong wind getting up  suddenly might
frustrate everything! However at this time 
of year the weather should be more
settled & we must hope for a day or two of
quite calm sea. For you can
S.S."MINNEWASKA."
imagine what a business it is
trying to land an Army, with all its men, horses,
guns & wagons, and then making arrangements
for its supplies of food, water & ammunition when
landed - the failing of any one of which might
lead to ruin. The men are splendid & are
all actuated with absolutely the right spirit
& I know will fight for all they are worth,
dashing at anything. If it was only a case
of being able to get at close quarters, I
should have no sort of doubt as to very
speedy success, but the difficulties will
be great in the way of trenched positions
everywhere covered by acres of barbed wire.
At Neuve Chapelle lanes were made through
the wire by our continuous heavy gun 
fire on the entanglements - that we can
not afford to attempt here, as being so far off
our base we can not possibly afford to expend
ammunition in the lavish way necessary for
that, so we must try all other devices we
can, and I fear we must expect heavy
losses. If it was only Turks we could rely on
finding them short of ammunition - no thorough
arrangements etc - but we may be quite sure
the Germans with them will have seen to everything
being right by now. The delay over the whole
thing is most lamentable - or rather I should
say the premature action of the Navy tryingto get
through on their own before any military
arrangements were made - and the publicity
given to the whole thing. It strikes me as
being much on a par with all our advertising
about the magnificence of our first "Dreadnought"
which so incited Germany to do all she
could to be level with us. Well before this
reaches you we should have been through
with the difficulty of our landing & first big
fighting. I of course do not expect that anything
will happen to me & naturally will not
thrust myself into places I should not be
in as a General - still I have to go where I
feel I may be most wanted if necessary to
encourage the men - to reconnoitre positions - 
and generally do ones best to ensure
confidence & make for success - and should
anything happen to me, you will always
know I have done my best facing the front
with confidence. You know I have thought
deeply about this war - for years I have seen
it as absolutely inevitable. Now that it has
come I regard it as an absolutely just
war as far as we are concerned. We are fighting
for no sort of agrandisement or power, but in an
entirely just cause to maintain our rights
& independence, which Germany would 
most certainly have crushed had we not
stood up to her now - and had we not
done so it would have meant an end to
our country, & misery & degredation to our
children & children's children. It is then
incumbent on every Englishman - & of course
especially every soldier - to be ready to do all
& everything he can down to giving his life
for his country. I have all along realised
this though as far as I am concerned I
look upon the Dardanelles as far more
hazardous than anything I should
probably have had to do in France, where
in trench warfare the roll of the General
must to a great extent be very limited.
But my own little wife if anything should
ever happen to me, you will know that at the
last I will be thinking of you & the little ones,
for it is only you who might be left behind 
who would suffer - for me it would
be nothing - and I know you would S.S."MINNEWASKA".
wish always to know I 
had and fearlessly done my duty to my
country - for your sake & the children's - &
all of you at home. I need hardly say I
would not write like this if everything wd.
not be over before you can get this, so you
can tear it up & laugh at my perhaps
morbid thoughts, which are only the result
of my knowing what a serious undertaking is
before us - and one ∧in which the Sultan of
Egypt told me, it was quite impossible to
contemplate such a thing as failure. I
hope & think I have thought out everything
& Skeen is a perfect treasure in such
matters. I think I told you Sir Ian had
accepted all the plans I made out before 
his arrival in toto & so I trust they
are for the best - though the long delay has
a good deal altered matters , & I consequently
suggested an alteration to Sir Ian, but he still
wants to stick to my original proposals. My
own Australians & New Zealanders are good
enough to let me know I have won their confidence & as I say I have no doubts about them,
fighting like tigers & enjoying it - though they
don't yet quite realise though all that is before
them.
I do hope you are sleeping quite all
right now my little one - with the lovely
weather coming on & motor drives like the
one you had to Cleethorpe you certainly
should & I am so glad you are at home to
go out like that with your old Father
who must love having you to go with
him. They have just come for the mail, so I
