Author: Hardinge of P
Date: 27 March 1917
Rank: Private
Nationality: British

Text:


Private.  March 27. 1917.                                                                             My dear General,  I am so glad that you   came here the other day and it was   such a pleasure to me to see you again  after the many successes that you have  achieved. When Bapaume fell I realised   at once that it was your Corps that   had carried the day and I rejoiced   accordingly. I hope that you and they   will do much more yet.  What you say about the Dardanelles  Commission report is perfectly true,  but it is only fair to say that I heard   the question of publication discussed
at the War Cabinet, to whom the objections to publication were vividly apparent, but the final opinion was that, since the Commission had been appointed by Act of Parliament, it would require an amending Act to prevent publication, and this the House of Commons would never consent to pass. Consequently the next instalment of the report as well as the Mesopotamian report, will be given to the public in the next two or three months, but I hope that the Commissioners will have profited by the experience of this report and make the others rather more anodyne and less sweeping in their criticisms. 
We regard the situation in Russia as very critical. The extremists seem to be getting the upper hand and to be following an exactly similar course to that of the French revolution. We are anxious for the safety of the Emperor & his family. They are close prisoners & not allowed to see anybody - if the extremist succeed their lives will not be worth a week's purchase. Moreover the triumph of the socialists means peace with Germany. So the outlook at present is not very bright, but it may come all right in the end. Much precious time is, however, being wasted and the army is suffering in discipline. What would do more good than anything else would be a strong German attack. 
London is full of pessimists to whom it  is very trying to listen. They will not understand that the Germans had to retire because they could not stay where they were, & fears of traps, counter-attacks &c are freely discussed. In my opinion our advance has had an immense moral effect everywhere & especially in Germany, and if we should be able to break through the next line in front of you, I am sanguine enough to hope that the whole fabric might topple of over. The internal situation is undoubtedly far worse in Germany than is generally known, but not sufficient of itself to bring collapse. All good wishes to you & your Corps and may you pull off soon something really very big.  Ever your's Hardinge of P. Hardinge of P