
Author: Hardinge of P
Date: 6 May 1917
Location: Gloucester Place
Nationality: British

Text:


24 Gloucester Place.                                                              May 6, 1917.  My dear General, Many thanks for your   letter of April 17 which I was delighted   to get and to hear such good news of   the doings of your Corps. The fighting   that is now going on seems to be   tremendous, in fact it looks as though   it may almost be decisive, for if   we really beat the Germans now I   doubt if their "morale" will hold out,  While if we do not I ask myself what  the attitude of the French may be.
As it is there is much too much intrigue   going on in high places in France in which   the Generals are mixed up, and it makes   me smile to think that appointments   to commands are in some cases decided   on the point whether the candidate goes   to Church or not.  The situation in Russia could hardly   be worse. On the Austrian front not a   shot has been fired for nearly a month   While at Riga & Dninsk the troops are   fraternising. There is no discipline and   it seems to me doubtful whether the   Russians will fight any more. In any   case they will not be fit to fight for several   months. How I hate the word Democracy!   If we lose the war it will be due to democracy, 
and if we win it will be in spite of it.  My own impression is that the revolution   in Petrograd is not nearly over yet and   that there will yet be bloodshed. The submarine menace is serious, but   it will not be fatal. The Admiralty have   at last woke up to the fact that something   must be done, and assistance from the   younger men has been invoked. Hitherto   all suggestions from that source have been   turned down, but now the younger men will   have their chance. Convoying has been hitherto   scoffed at but is now to be tried. Nevertheless   out of 1200 colliers conveyed to France   only 3 have been lost.  The Americans will be of considerable   assistance when they are ready. They are   going to send a small regular force at
once to France, and they have offered us   100,000 volunteers which we have accepted.   It is not known yet what their formation   will be.  Maude continues to do well near Bagdad,   but owing to the paralysis of the Russian   forces the cooperation which was promised   cannot now be made. It is the same   story on all the Russian fronts.  Alec is here on sick leave, having had a   slight attack of trench feet. He should   have returned to France today but he is   to go before a medical board in a few days.   I am naturally glad to have him as long   as I can.  I hope that you are keeping fit & well.  Wishing you and your Corps the best   of luck & much success.  Ever yours,  Hardinge of P.

I am so glad Willcocks has   got a Colonial Governorship.   I wish [[?]] could get something.