Author: William Birdwood
Date: 3 June 1916
Location: Cairo Egypt
Rank: Field Marshall.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:



You could send Irene's present by King's Messenger perhaps   Cairo. 3rd June 1916.  
My own darling little one.
I was so glad to get your letter of 10th & to 
know that you had got my letter about the first evacuation
all right - you will still now have got one about the second I
hope. I am so glad too that dear old Lord K & Fitz came
to see you, for I know how really rushed they are with work every hour of the day, & I think it was  most awfully good
of them.  I am sorry Lord K. talked though about my coming home.
He told me if I wanted a rest that I was to write to him
when he would arrange & I had hoped if nothing was doing to
have been able to pop home quite quietly & without a word to your complete surprise!!  But for the formation of this Army I think I might have been able to manage it - & if this should not come off I still hope I may be able to do. I am at present awaiting to see if Australia agrees - if she does I shan't have a single spare moment - & even then I don't know if I'll ever be able to get through everything in time - for there will be an appalling lot to be done - more than twice which I had to do with the formation of this Corps here last year.  It isn't little lamb, as I am sure you know that I don't just long to get home & see
you all & I'll just rush along if it is possible.  It isn't  that my profession comes before you all, because that isn't it  at all. I feel I have absolutely no ambition now - any I may  have had has been more than satisfied by winning the confidence  of all these fine men in the field. But I do feel that once  can have no thoughts now but the safety of the Country which is still in such great peril, while defeat would be too awful  to contemplate.   All we have ever lived for would be gone & England &
everyone in it would be simply trampled to pieces. Not that  we are going to lose for a minute. But if there is any little thing  one can do to ensure success I feel one simply has to see  it through, & if this reorganisation is sanctioned I am vain  enough to believe that I must be here to carry it through. It  will require an enormous amount of work - a great deal of improvisation
& personal influence to carry it through as to some extent it must encroach on vested interests, & I believe I  can deal with such matters better than anyone else  here, for they somehow seem to trust me. I was really quite  touched yesterday when going round the ranks an old  Anzac, New Zealander said "I hope you are coming back  to us now Sir & will command us right through" - & when I  said I was,  he so fervently said "Thank God. That'll do
me all right". Poor fellows, they are all mad keen on  getting over to France where as a matter of fact I expect we  will go, but they none of them seem to realize the enormous  casualties we are bound to have in our fighting there. With the reputation they have made as fighters, I fancy we  are sure to be given some real tight jobs to carry through  & I can never dismiss from my mind, the thousands who may be  killed. No one will realize more than you how this is makes me  do all the little I can to  help them now, for good organization  & training now, is what is going to pay & save lives later on. Even dear old K. doesn't always think of such things.   He  has never had to train troops & I doubt if he realises all it  means - also when he saw you, he had no idea of the  possibility of this big scheme - if it doesn't come off I  shall still hope to be able to run home soon little one. But  in any case I quite think we will all come over to  France & if so I do not anticipate any difficulty in  getting home then - &more than once. But it is of course  too early to make such plans now.   I seem to have  been seeing numberless men in hospital since I arrived  here - there seems no end to them, which is depressing. The McMahons are most awfully good & will not let 
me leave them as I am daily expecting orders about forming my new  Army.  Irene is to be married on 9th.   I am afraid you may only just have  got my letter by then asking you to send her a wedding present, so it  can't be in time, but I know you will send it as soon as you can.   They had
hoped to get the married daughter out for the wedding, but this order
prohibiting ladies coming here at all has stopped it, and McMahon says  that in any case he would not have allowed it now that there are  so many submarines about between here & Malta.   Both these would  apply to you little one if we had decided you should come out, for  even if you were allowed it is not a bit too safe at present, & one  is thankful to hear of every ship arriving safely.   You mustn't worry  about Lord K. saying I was thin. I certainly was very much so at one time  at Anzac, but that passed off & I feel I am now getting roundly fat  at the McMahons - it is so hard to escape lunch!   I see an account  in a paper of your being presented with a boomerang at the Anzac  buffet?  I expect you write & told me about it, in one of the mails that was torpedoed. You will I hope have got my letter about our evacuation of Helles long before now. It certainly is much to be thankful for & it is nice of Monro to have said I was to be credited. As a matter of fact he wasn't there at all & always held a rotten position.  It was only my representation to Lord K which made him put him in command of the Dardanelles and Salonika Armies - but as a matter of fact he slipped on a ship & sprained his ankle badly while Lord K. was at Mudros & was never able to leave his ship again till he went to Egypt 10 days before I evacuated Helles. He only spent one day altogether visiting all three places on the peninsula.   As a matter of fact though the real  credit is due to the Corps Commanders and their Staffs who had to work 
out their local details & I hadn't very much to do, though of course I had the responsibility and anxiety.  However I hope I'll never have such another thing to carry out.  Monro who is a dear good fellow must have been fearfully sick at being tied by the leg as he was.  I  still chuckle to think of the disgust of the Turks at finding we had got away from Helles with no loss.  I fancy they lost so heavily the day before when they attacked us, that it put them off coming on again so soon after. Tell me what Lord K. thought of Chris:  I do hope he appeared to advantage & wasn't shy?  Nancy & Judith would I am sure have been very much all there!  Did the latter have lots to say?  Where he is older is in his movements which have become so much heavier - didn't you think so?  Poor Wylly does seem to have had a real bad time of it with those two smashes to his face, but I hope he is right again now &if I can get him to my new Army I'll certainly try.  You do seem to have had a real full house at Xmas at Thurlby & I daresay you weren't sorry you had spent most of the time in London. What a pity & mistake it seems not to send Julie to school & I wonder Kath doesn't do it on her own & just tell Robin she finds she has had to do so.  He surely couldn't object if he realised how necessary it was - but I fancy she would want a long time at a good school to get her right!  As a very small child I quite saw how easily out of hand she would get.  I don't quite know what Col. Smith that would be whom you met at Moreton Gardens, but rather think he must be a capital fellow who commanded one of my Battalions & whom I am sorry to say, I hear is not likely to return to us at all.  I'm glad you saw Edith.  Do you know if Reggie
is still trying to exchange into the 4th Hussars or is he sticking  to the 11th?  I hope so.  Did you hear that Major Price has transferred to the Iris Welsh Guards, which I'm sure will please her very much!  How is Mr Cliff? I saw him last at Mudros, but I fancy he must be in Egypt now, though where I am not sure.  They should be richer than ever as all shipping is now paying enormously. I have just had a letter from Mrs Atkinson - what a queer creature she is !  A bit mad?  How very nice Lady Robinson always seems to be to you & I am sure Judith liked being at Broadstairs for Xmas.  I am rather amused at Uncle George's present of Homer & Virgil to Chris. What did he say to it?!!  How I should have loved to take Judith to the pantomime & I'm sure you all enjoyed it thoroughly.  Look out for the Anzac magazine which  will be published at home next month or March & for which I have written an introduction - you might send me 3 or 4 copies to send to people - some of our ships I know will like them.  All the Xmas cards you had sent out have arrived all right & will be much appreciated.  Goodbye my own little one. Excuse a more than usually badly written scrawl, but as a matter of fact I write from bed as I suddenly found I had a temperature of 102° last night, so am sitting tight for a day or so.  All my love to you. Ever your very loving old, Will.