Author: W E Peyton
Date: 5 February 1917
Location: France
Nationality: British

Text:



General Headquarters,  Mesopotamian Expeditionary Force.  5th February, 1917.     My dear General     Very many thanks for your letter, which I was very glad  to get, and for the kind congratulations which it contained.  I can assure you that the latter are appreciated very  thoroughly by me.  I think that I have been very lucky all through the war,  and any success which I may have met with has been due entirely  to those that I have had under my command. First my splendid  brigade in France, then my magnificent division at Gallipoli  and here, and more recently the Corps and now the Army in  this country.  Things are going tiptop with us out here now. When I  first took over command it was clearly necessary to spend  some time in organising and developing our resources. Much  spadework had been done towards this end, but much still  remained to be done, and it seemed quite evident to me that  it was useless to attempt to take the offensive unprepared.  So we spent 3½ months in strenuous preparation, during which  time I lived on the L. of C., and went into everything  personally. By that time we had developed our resources in  the way of river, rail and road transport immensely, and we  had accumulated a substantial reserve of stores of all kinds,  including supplies, whereas previously we had had to live day  by day from hand to mouth.   This made one feel justified in making a move forward,  and since the middle of December we have been hard at it making  steady progress and always driving the Turks before us. We  have have established ourselves securely on the line of the HAI -  an important waterway, the possession of which means much to  both sides - and we have evicted the Turks from positions  extending about ten miles in length on the right bank of  the TIGRIS which they previously held. The fighting has been  fast and furious, but tough and determined fighters as the  Turks are, and they are certainly marvellous stickers when  they mean business, our men have over and over again proved  their superiority, and have come, as the results show, most  triumphantly out of the ordeal.  It is a real joy to command an Army with such a fine  fighting spirit and such determination, and with everyone  putting their backs into it and pulling wholeheartedly together  we need have no fears as to the result.  It is not only the fighting troops that have done so  magnificently, though indeed the work of the regimental Officers,  N.C. Officers and Men has been beyond praise, but their efforts  would have been quite unavailing if it had not been for the  ancillary services and on the L. of C. The performance of  these under the indescribable difficulties existing locally  must, I feel sure, almost constitute a record, for - to take  one item - we are supplying a force which takes close on 500  tons daily to feed by a single 2'6" line, and whilst doing so  are actually building up a still greater reserve from day to  day.  Our great difficulty is to get at the Turks, who have  chosen their position very cleverly, and now that the rains  have begun are protected on almost every side by rivers or  marshes. But we shall continue to find some means of getting  at them and of keeping them busy, although the state of the  ground from time to time makes movement impossible.
The Turkish losses have been very severe throughout the  last month, and far far heavier than ours, in spite of the  fact that we have always been attacking. Their counter-attacks  give us our chance, and then the superiority of our artillery,  and our plentiful ammunition, coupled with the grit of the  infantry, tells.  So you may realise how happy I am in my command, and I  am in camp here in the midst of the troops close behind the  centre of our line.  Please forgive this hurried line, which I am dictating  during the pauses in our fighting, but I wanted to say how  much I appreciated your kind letter.  With very many thanks for your kind wishes  which are really important.  Yrs sincerely,  I.S.Maude   Maude.

To:  Lieut. -General Sir William Birdwood,  K.C.S.I., K.C.M.G., C.B., C.I.E., D.S.O.,  1st Anzac Corps,  British Army in the Field,  F R A N C E.