
Author: William Birdwood Date: 4 September 1915
Nationality: Australian

Text:
  My own darling Jenny Jane We have been rather cut off from the outside world for the last few days by a South-Westerly wind which has made landing extraordinarily difficult & done a lot of damage to our boats &piers. As it was really quite wild, one begins to  see what things may be like in the winter when we may  be entirely cut off for days & almost weeks from any communications of any sort! A lively sort of existence if it comes about! I haven't any more news at present as we are now likely to have to settle down for a bit before any other move can be contemplated & I am waiting for Bingo Byng on my left to be ready & able to shove on. I hear that Col. Cole was wounded over there on 21st last month, but I have heard no particulars - in the shoulder I believe but not very bad. I had just been asking that he might be given a Brigade command. I fancy he will have gone to Egypt, but - once a man leaves here in a hospital ship we never hear of him again. Col Bateman- Champain has just arrived with the 4th Gurkhas &we are glad to have the reinforcements as my other Gurkha Regiments are about 300 short each only. None of my Australians are any better as the numbers I have to invalid daily are awful. I am glad to say I am now getting 
a new Australian Division & am using them entirely to  relieve my old one which I am going to send off to Lemnos  or Imbros for a complete month's rest where I hope they  may be able to get into tents - have a daily wash with out  fear of being shot & I hope get a look in at a canteen  which is perhaps what they want as much as anything. So many of them have got so weak that they really are useless except to stand behind a wall & shoot. It seems extraordinary that great strong men should get run down in such a manner. What I have got to do, is to try & get them to pick up before the winter as otherwise the cold & damp here will find them out horrendously & half of them will go down with pneumonia. I heard from Maud the other day, telling me they had met   you & Nancy some time ago - you never told me. I don't  suppose you are likely to be seeing anything of them  again just yet awhile.  By the bye I wonder if you could remember to send   me later on a Lett's Indian & Colonial Rough Diary  No. 35 for next year.  I shall not of course want it  till Xmas, so there is no sort of hurry about it,  but you might make a note of it.  Also what I do want is one bath towel - not  a huge big one like those lovely ones your Father 
has , but a moderate sized one that doesn't take up  so much room.  Those I have here are getting torn to   pieces. Also do you think you can get me a pair of  slippers. I enclose the measurements of my foot: which  I think should do to go by. I want something fairly substantial  & not so big that one cannot walk about comfortably without  them coming off! I walk down to the beach for my daily swim  in them always & my present pair is about worn out. While I  am on the subject of sending things out. Are you sending  me your copies of the "Times" when done with at the end of the   week? I very often do as a matter of fact see them regularly  here, but sometimes do not, so a regular supply would be nice, though of course cut out anything you ever want before sending them. Wasn't that a fine Punch cartoon  of Christ & the Emperor? It will go down with the one of   "Letting down the Pilot".  I had one more biggish fight since our big advance, in  taking a hill on my left, during which we had nearly  2000 casualties, but I am glad to say caused losses of  at least between 4 and 5000 to the Turks. I am always  hoping that these heavy losses may do something to  weaken their opposition, And at present they don't  seem to do so & goodness knows when they will. There   is one thing I am sure of, that is that they are fearfully 
keen on not having a winter Campaign here - but that   they may not be able to avoid! I have just heard that   Millbank was after all killed - one never knows what  to believe. I met little Major Lance (19th Bn) yesterday  who told me this - he is now with the Yeomanry & is  officiating for Colonel Cole who he tells me got a   rather nasty wound - a bullet through the shoulder  & chest, so I daresay he may not be back here- at  all events not for a long time- Lance himself has   been here (with Bingo Byng's force) about 3 weeks & was  looking very well. he is sure though to be hit soon- he  always is! I have just got your letters of 5th & 16th - The latter  about a day before the former! The one of the 5th had  I see been forwarded by the War Office to the office of   the High Commissioner for Australia in the first   instance & had marked on the back of it "Reported  wounded but still performing duties 15-5-15". !!  Rather un-necessary eh? On the 5th you wrote  about Monk's son - you might let her know that  I fear it came altogether too late for me to  be able to do anything about it, for as you know I had long ago seemed de Crespigny -& failing him  I fear there are many others I would naturally take  first though from his report he seems to be an excellent   boy.  I have recently had Angelsey away sick, & have to   send Chirnside away to Egypt - also sick - but there really is  very little for an A.D.C to do here & Angelsey is now back.  You have been breaking out in the swimming line, going out  of your depth, but even with Chris there I don't think it  is very safe, so don't you try such larks again little  one!  I must say Harefield seems a most charming   little place & rather like what one would like to settle   down in when we retire? Such places with the ideal   little house are however astoundingly difficult to come by   & there is always some fatal drawback of sorts - the house-  the drains (or want of them) - distance from a station etc.   Is Revel going to stay on with your father after the war  when he is married?  If not your father certainly ought  to take on my little Steward who is such an excellent fellow  & I am sure would do him real well- a teetotaller -  always   most willing & hard working, I fancy would turn his hand   to anything & probably, learn to drive a motor in no time.   I don't know how useful he would be though in other   outside work. but by the end of this war, he should   have learnt something about ponies- I am so glad you are seeing something of the men in the hospital &  I am sure they will appreciate this - they are such real  good fellows & so seldom have any complaints. All of   the first lot though are fearfully close now & for the time  being practically useless, so I am trying to get them  all away for at least a month's rest to one of those Islands  where the climate may not be different but where as they   say they will at all events be able to sleep in comfort  without the constant chances of shells & bullets - of the  former I hardly remember one coming in at night since  poor Onslow was killed, though of course we have lots all  day.  The Turks however never seem to tire of rifle fire  & some nights I hear bullets coming over at any & every  hour when I am awake - irrespective of course of attacks  or " draws" which we often carry out & make them  waste thousands of rounds for nothing. The men thoroughly  enjoy this & I always make an old Regt show every   new lot what it means as otherwise new troops are  liable to be alarmed when they hear machine guns &  hundreds of rifles firing away just a few inches over  their heads as hard as they can go- it makes an  appalling din, especially the echoes in the valleys  The contrast between my men & the newly landed   Territorials  & this army is rather awful - my men seem  almost able to eat two of them and it makes one  think a bit- I am only afraid that it may make  the Australians think that these are all this British Army  can produce & that they are so much better than them  I am glad to say that so far they get on together most  capitally & are the best of pals. I now have the 54th   Territorial Division (Genl Inglefield) with me, as well as my  3 own Divisions - which should mean about 50,000 men - but   alas all are so weak that we are very far short of that.  Charlie Chitty's son has come as a Territorial Subaltern  but haven't yet seen him  Harcourt Butter has suddenly taken to writing the most  affectionate & flattering letters, which nearly make one blush -  very nice of him, but I cannot think why he should.   I fancy he got to Burma as LG in October & wrote  last on his way back to India, as he is to be in Suvla  for a bit now.  What lovely places you seem to have found you at  Harefield & it is certainly very nice for Nancy having  friends like the Steddalls  & Harlands to go to  from time to time for tea etc, Chris too I am sure  enjoys his Bathe & it is nice of Mrs Goodlake  to have allowed them to use her grounds.  I can quite imagine Mrs Harland being rather alarming but with 22 children, she will need be! Fancy  having to look after a lot like that - why it must  be worse than an Army Corps.  I have written about [[?]] pension & will let you  know as soon as I get a reply, for personally I have  no knowledge of the [[?]] regulations about such   things  Goodbye little lamb & all my love to you  always  Ever your ever loving old,  Will. 