
Author: William Birdwood  Date: 19 September 1915
Nationality: Australian


Text:
 My own darling Jenny Jane.. I have had a lot to do the last few days settling up things at Anzac before coming over here to Kephalo - on the Island of Imbros to stay for ten days with Sir Ian - and I must say it is very nice feeling one hasn't to think of anything & can be in at absolute peace for the time being- when I say in absolute peace though. I am wary, as they recently started all their air ship sheds etc. close to where Sir Ian has his. H.Q. This the Turks have just found out & consequently are trying to bomb & destroy our machines etc. Just before I arrived they made a raid &  dropped 8  bombs which wounded 5 men & there last night just as were going to dinner we heard a series of bangs quite close & found   two Turkish planes right over us & very low down. They   again dropped 8 bombs but did no harm. Even though it  was bright moonlight it was impossible to see them unless   they happened to get right between you & moon, though   of course you heard them passing over & they seemed to be   only just over the tents from the noise. They are   jolly bad shots though & it will be bad luck if they do   much harm - Capt. (now Col) Sykes who was in Suvla is here in charge of our air craft, some of which were  at once sent off to retaliate by an attack on the Turkish   sheds & though they came back saying they had smashed  up things there, I rather doubt it.  And I have had a new sensation on my first fly! I first   of all went up in a small air ship which they have  recently got, & we just flew about round this place for  10 minutes or so at a height of about 700 ft . It was   quite nice though there was a strong wind & she kept  diving her nose down & then bringing it up again.  As soon as we got back I heard a tremendous lot of  heavy gun fire going on at Anzac which is only  about 12 miles off & as it might have been a Turkish  attack I thought I might as well go over there, so I   got on an aeroplane and off we went! I was piloted by   a Capt Samson R.N whom you may have heard of - earlier   in the war he did some rather famous flights in France   & is I fancy a very good man. The actual starting off   is I think the most alarming part of it # as   you taxi along the ground at about 60 miles an   hour before getting into the air - directly you are in   the air it is all right and one feels nothing at all   in the way of being alarmed. We went up to 7000   ft & even that is not high enough to be safe from enemy's shells- we went over at about 70 miles an   hour & Samson said we might have been doing nearly  100 on part of the way back - At the same time you don't  have any feeling of going at an awful pace, though  of  course there is the terrible rush of air past you the   whole time & it whistles & howls through the sails- which combined   with the roar of the engines & propeller makes it impossible  to hear anything. It gets very cold too. I was given special clothes  in which you would think it was impossible to feel cold. A  Complete airtight thick leather suit lined with thick  wool. Cap & all complete & even then it was pretty cold  Flying right over the peninsula it all looked so extraordinarily easy and it seemed quite impossible to believe that we couldn't  get over those few miles as of course it all looks so  smooth & flat.  But when right over and looking down on  our positions you saw all the huge network of Turkish trenches stretching all over the hills and going right back for miles. The bombardment had practically ceased when I got over  there, but one could still see shells falling in different   places - men moving I couldn't see at all. After circling  over we turned round & came back again. Landing  seems quite difficult but I must say Samson brought  us down beautifully.  Sir Ian and Braithwaite both seem very well as does  Pollen who is always so very nice to me and Winston 
Churchill's brother, who is Sir Ian's Camp Commandant &  who was with me for a short time in S. Africa - & is  I should say a much better fellow than his brother W.  always cheery ready to help. But it all seems a regular  pic-nic - one lives in tents with no fear of shells & walk about  anywhere with no idea of bullets. I am dining with Admiral   de Robeck on his flagship "Triad" - he is such an awfully   nice fellow & I am always glad to see him. I have brought   Angebey here with me as even though he has lately been on  a hospital ship I felt he wanted a change next - as he says   he has never really got out of having grown to 6.3 1/2 & looks so  very difficult. He is a particularly nice fellow & I like  him much. He was telling me yesterday about his matrimonial  troubles at the bottom of which apparently is his mother in  law and though he is quite prepared to live with his wife again  it is only on condition that her mother does not come into the  house! He tells me that the dirt alone of the 'Souls' is awful  & that- he doesn't suppose the Duchess has had her hair properly  brushed out for years !! He was telling me too about  Princess Patricia -the old King apparently once wrote  to his brother giving them his blessing and saying she would  have to ditch the Royal rank on marriage. When his brother  had to write to say there was nothing in it & that there   was no engagement. Enormous riches must have their  drawbacks some can see how he has been pushed 
for his - and he is so nice about it. The amount of  money, such they have was rather brought home to me when  we were discussing the "Triad" which the Admiralty recently  bought, for the Admiral here for £80,000- she was an American  millionaires yacht. & Angelsey said he had only pd £55,000  for his, which was a much better one!  Genl. Peyton came over to see me the other day as did  Maher. The former told me he had heard how Cole was very  bad from his wound & at one time was not expected to live. It  is however so impossible to hear anything authentic regarding  the wounded once they leave here, that one can believe nothing.  Poor Gurney Sheppard - Aileen Clives husband- was killed - you  might write to her if you haven't done so. Skeen I hear has  been landed at Malta & I fear he has enteric there.  I  have tried to find out, & if he is to be away a long time  I am to have Col. McMunn sent me in his place, but I  much hope this may not be necessary.  I was rather pleased at getting a very nice wire  of happy returns of the day from the General Head Quarters  here on my birthday, which Gnl. Braithwaite had  apparently happened to look up in the birthday army list!  I see some of the papers have been publishing rather  good accounts of all our fighting here in August-  & the doings of "Anzac". We shall have to go down  to France I fancy geographically as well as historically.
When my Army Corps was first formed, I was asked to  settle on a telegraphic code word &  selected "Anzac"  Then after we had landed here I was asked what I  wished the little bay in beach to be called, as all  the different beaches are constantly to be referred  to in order & I selected "Anzac Cove", & as such I see it  now marked in maps & as part of this peninsula is  referred to as "Anzac". & as such will have to figure in  future maps!  I am wondering so much if you have ever got all my  letters - as in your last of 22nd Aug, I see that there are  several things you haven't heard of & about which I have  written. Did you ever get my letter about the flower  seeds? I mean the original one I wrote a long time  ago asking you to send some to Isabel Vaughan-Hughes?  And did you get one telling you all about old Col Ryan?  He is such a dear kind old man & I hope you may  perhaps see more of him- if you are in London again be sure  to ask him to tea or something if he is still there. He  told me he expected to return to my staff but I understand   there is no chance of his being strong enough  ever to be able to do that or to stand the knocking about,  though he will probably be all right in Egypt.  I have been most awfully sorry to hear of poor old Genl. Broome's death. He had been over to Australia  on some [[?warrant]] duty work & died at Colombo of  heart on his way back- I fancy he had been bad for a  long time - he was such a dear nice fellow.  Just got a letter from Nancy of 29th- While your last is 22nd-  but one can never tell what happens to them- I have  letters from Bob & Edie of 9th July & 20th August arriving  the same day, & some which have taken exactly two months  to reach me here from Egypt - only 3 days journey! I  forget if I sent you a copy of Sir Ian's special order  about the fighting of my Army Corps last month - I don't  think I did, but I sent them some time ago to Nancy & Chris  & enclose one for you now - your father will like to see it.  I don't think I am any thinner now little one. I was-  but have got fatter again - I take lunch if I am in, but  with so much to be seen I am generally out as once one  starts off round the trenches it is impossible to get back  under several hours & I am sure it is much the best thing  for me too. Certainly if I didn't go round every day, talking  to the men & finding out if things were all right on my  own, I shouldn't be able to gain their confidence to anything  like this extent. I hope I have done - and I now have four  Divisions in place of two - 2 Australian. 1 mixed  Australian & New Zealand and 1 Territorial - who are  absolute children beside the Australians. I'm sorry you 
weren't able to see little Gabriel when he was over, as  he would have been interesting & I don't suppose he will be back  again for some time. I have been seeing something of the  Italian military attache here & he seems quite optimistic.  I am so sorry to hear of poor Wally's wound, as though not serious  it is probably most painful & anything on the jaw must be bad.  I hope he will be right again soon. I'm sure you will have  been quite sorry to leave Hansfield & all the Australians who  seem to have appreciated you so much & I'm so glad you  were always able to see so much of them.  Your letter came just right - or as near as possible - 2 days only  after my birthday & I was so glad to get it little one. The  short bread & air pillow will be most welcome & you  couldn't possibly have thought of anything I would so much  have liked to have - they should turn up ere long.  I'm afraid I don't see much chance of a move on  from here yet awhile, but it is not easy to foresee the  situation for anytime ahead.  Goodbye my own little sweetheart - All my love to you  Ever your very loving old.  Will. 