Author: William Birdwood
Date: 11 November 1918
Location: France
Rank: Field Marshall.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:




1918 HEADQUARTERS, FIFTH ARMY, B.E.F., FRANCE. 11 November, 1915    My own darlingest, Victory at last!   After all these long 4 years!  I have never for a moment doubted it, but at times it seemed so very far off, that it seems almost impossible to realise that now it really has come. I made Chris send you  exactly the same telegram as I sent you from Pretoria on 1st June 1902 about the S. African War. For years I had seen this struggle arising, with Germany daily increasing her strengths & ours rather going down - it had to come, so the sooner the better & I am so really thankful to Providence that it is now all over, with
the result that I hope our country may be able to live in peace & prosperity for years to come. We have however to realize all the possibilities that may be before us with labour troubles on working men returning & over that, Govt will have to go with the greatest caution &wisdom. For the next few days there will of course  be much to be done & indeed for some time to come, but I quite think that by the end of the month I'll be over in London on A.I.F. work, though I haven't heard anything definite from Mr Hughes about it.
I had such a day of it yesterday. We had a  service first in the little English church here  to meet all the English people who have been in  Lille all these 4 years- about 100 of them.  I had Bishop Gwynne - such a nice fellow with  me, who gave a real nice sermon & later in  their meeting room I had to address them  & shook hands with them all.  Then I went in to Tournai which is the first  big Belgian town my Army has taken.  I had  to see the Burgomaster & talked about things generally  & went over the lovely church they have there.  I then went back to see Genl. Plumer quite
close to Lille for tea. While there the King & Queen  of the Belgians with their eldest boy the young  Duke of Brabant appeared, saying they were  going to  Tournai! It was then getting dark &  of course roads are bad. I tried to put them  off, but not a bit of it - both would go - & in  an open car & very cold. He is a huge  great well built fellow - very plodding  & sensible I am sure & rather shy. She  is a perfect little dear & I can quite  understand everyone loving her. Such a little  slight frail creature with a figure  & hands like yours  & probably weighing  about
the same. When I told her it was much too late  to go careering about like this (as their H.Qs  were a long way off), she told me they sometimes  didn't get home till 3 a.m. if they had any  sick or wounded to see - &they live in a horrid  little villa without even a bath in it! To think  too that her sister was  the wife of that brute Prince  Ruprecht of Bavaria! The boy is at Eton &  seemed such a nice but very shy boy, like our  Prince of Wales! Well - Tournai being in  my Army area, I had of course to offer to take  them round it,  as they had no vehicle & didn't  know the roads, so many  being broken down.  Fortunately I was able to wire in to expect us; or
they wouldn't have seen any one. As it was the  Burgomaster & a few very [[drunk?]] people met us with  candles & as soon as they recognised the King & Queen were  really delighted. Orations were made then in the  Town hall & we then returned, I bringing them  back for supper at 9 to my H.Q. at Lille. On  the way to Tournai I found one road which I  had been on only a few hours earlier, quite  blocked  by a huge lorry stuck in the mud  across it!! Nothing to be done but turn round  & go back miles, for these Flanders roads are  awful & had we got off the narrow "pave"  on to the side we would probably have been  stuck ourselves for the night. They certainly  travel most informally-  only 1 A.D.C. & no   car to follow. I think they quite liked being
brought back here for supper. I introduced  Chris to them here & they seemed to like him  while he was delighted with the Queen.  You can not imagine anything less formal  than they are in every way & evidently quite  devoted to their people. It was rather amusing  talking to him about the present revolutions  going on in Germany with the consequent  uncertain future of King's generally - as he  said - he might have to come over to  England if things went wrong in his country,  but he thought the people there already too free
& sensible to want a change like that in   Russia or Germany.  I have much to do &  by real bad luck, my Capt. Ward (the  [Geersham?] has gone to hospital with the  flu!  All my love, my Sweetheart,  Ever your very loving old  Will. 