
Author: William Birdwood
Date: 15 May 1915.
Rank: Field Marshall.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:
 
My own darling wife. I have at last got your letter of 21st April - how a notice you posted the same day can have reached me a month week ago, & this
only now I do not know. I was so glad too to get the little snap shots you sent. The one of Judith standing is really capital - she looks such a little monkey & exactly what you were like as a kid!! I can't say one sees very much of you with the dog! I am enclosing
a snapshot Mrs. Carruthers took of us - Col. C. Onslow & self just as we were leaving Alexandria: the shade doesn't give me much of a chance! I have just lost my Admiral Thursby. I call him mine, as he & his ships have more or less been placed at my disposal & we have been made a little independent force to carry on on our own, which is a great thing. I have found him such a good fellow to work with in every way - always wanting to do his best to help us, & as you may care to see it I enclose such a nice letter he wrote me saying good bye. He takes with him the "Queen" on which I have so often been with him & from which I did our landing here on 25th, "Prince of Wales", 'London" and two or three others & goes to Malta where he will 
shortly join the Italian fleet for combined operations against Austria, and I think you will see the Italians declaring war next week. What we most want here is for either Greece of Bulgaria to come in and land troops at the Bulair lines up at the head of this peninsula - that would help us enormously, as it would prevent the Turks sending down constant reinforcements as they are now doing, & would draw off troops from in front of us. They however I fear will not come in, at all events at present, or in time to do us much good. Our attack here certainly hung fire a lot & I can imagine how you must have longed for the news of our landing. It takes a long time though to settle details which are endless in such matters & I certainly thought we should have landed a good fortnight earlier than we did - one lucky thing we didn't do so was that settled fine weather only started the day we landed & it has been absolutely lovely ever since - just perfect summer weather. We have had some very cold nights, but they now seem to be over, and we have one lovely day after another. How lovely it would be if only you were here with me for a summer holiday! You can't imagine anything more lovely than the sea here is - such a deep blue & so transparent you can see right down to the bottom far out - and when firing isn't going on on the beach it is about as lovely a bathing place as you could wish for. The land we are 
on has not very much to say for itself in particular, perhaps because we only see such a small piece of it, but they tell me the Island of Imbros which is just opposite is lovely & there are some very pretty wild flowers about here too - it seems as if only man was n vile. How beastly it might be if we had constant rain as was the case up to about 24th April - now it is ideal & here are we confined to a very few miles of the country. I can so well imagine Judith as a pixie & I'm sure she must have looked very sweet. I am so glad Mrs Wray is always so nice to you at Thurlby as there are so few people about there of whom you can see much. I forget if I told you our Alliance Bank pass book had apparently been lost, so I have asked them to make out another. I had to send Sir G. Ker another cheque for £150 as I found the account there was so much out - and I fear later on I shall have to pay the Somerleyton rent as though Edie & Bob have both worried like anything about it & done all they could, they haven't been able to sublet - though I hope Edie may perhaps still be able to do so at a reduction. It is of course about the worst possible year to be trying to do so. I have just been so glad to get your letters of 4th & 6th, May which have come along in capital time from 
the War Office. Many thanks for thinking of sending the shirts, socks & hankies from Harrods. They haven't of course turned up yet & I hope will do so all right, but I am not at all sure how parcels can get to this place - and the carrying of kit is awful, for we have nothing here - no box of any sort, just shaving things etc - and lately some of us have been able to set up a
roll of bedding in which one can fortunately always keep spare shirt, socks etc. But the unfortunate men & regimental officers have I
think only what they stand up in & can carry on their backs, and I heard a man say the other day "I am as lowly as a bull"!! Luckily we have the sea, so they can come down in batches & get a swim which is something. No fresh water is however available for anyone to wash in - it is difficult enough to get enough for drinking & except for shaving not a drop is allowed for washing - we all have to use the sea and I enjoy a swim when I can. I think that Lady Moore you mention, was on board with him but I don't remember her. I imagine she will be rather Australian, but it was nice of her to have called. I wonder if Jim Turner will get back to India - the Chief may take him, but I rather doubt it. Is [[Bundie?]] engaged to that Naval man & when is she to be married? Poor Lorna I'm sorry for her & the Body Guard, but that can't be helped & I see Capt. de Gale has now got it apparently "pucca". 
Very nice for Beth - fancy he returning to Mussoorie after all these years. I do wonder if you have have let Fitz & Lord K. know you were in town? You most certainly should do so, as they'll never have known it otherwise & I'm sure Lord K will be quite hurt, if he hears afterwards that you were there for a month & didn't let him know. I think too he'd like to see his little god-daughter - and I'm so glad you are going to see old Sir Dighten - it will please him awfully. I didn't quite know what the sum of £100 is which you tell me has been credited at the Bank - the £150 & 148 as far as I remember would be all right - and the 255, but I don't remember the 100, but it is sure to be all right. As so much more is accumulating than you can want I think it will be best if you keep say a few pounds to your credit (another 255 will be paid in monthly) and then write to Mr Watson - (J.W. Esq) 1 Tokenhouse Buildings, Lothbury. E.C & tell him you want him to invest the balance (whatever it is) in anything he thinks suitable. He has done this for us for years & is to be trusted. The Bank know him & between them they will do everything for you.  It is always as well to have it invested in this way, as in any case it means not having all our eggs in one basket, while at the Bank a large balance simply lies idle. I'm glad you are to meet Mr Pollen Lady I.H. He has been most awfully nice to me, & so 
has she whenever I have seen her & I have always liked Mrs Pollen. Sir Ian or Capt. P. I see very little of - just for a very few minutes when they have been over here twice since we landed - they are living in great comfort on a ship. I can hardly believe in Mrs Cobbe driving her own motor through London - I call that perfectly marvellous in a nervous, high strung woman like her. Is he still on Sir J. Willcocks staff? When going through the poor Villains few things here we came across two letters in his note book, one for his wife & the other to you which I enclose. Written 2 days before his death, they seem so pathetic & seem such a sad but nice memory of him & show to a small extent what a very dear good fellow he was & I still can't think of his having gone. I know you will like to have his letter. I was writing to your father yesterday while we were in the midst of a tremendous attack by the Turks under their German General Liman von Sanders. From some of the prisoners we hear that two new Turkish Divisions of their crack troops from Constantinople were landed in the Straits 2 days ago & brought over here to join in the attack against us. This gave them about 33,000 men against my 12,000. If only von Sanders had attacked one point of my trenches with his whole force, he must have been nearly certain to get through, but as he made several disjointed attacks we were able to beat them off one after another with heavy loss. The whole place is now strewn with dead Turks & I tremble to think of what an awful state it may be in a short time hence if we are unable to bury them. I asked one Australian how many he thought there  
were in front of his Regt - he said he didn't know in men, but he knew there were 8 acres of them! Such a roar as was going on all the time. They started all their guns - we calculated
about 100 of them on here as soon as ever it was light, and every sort of projectile came tumbling along, from a huge 14" shell fired right away from across the peninsula from one of the Dardenelles Forts, to small mountain guns. It was surprising what little harm they did as we all sat tight till the shelling was over. The huge "Jack Johnsons" you can only take your chance of, & a large number of them injured only very few men. By midday the Turks seemed to have had enough of it & their attacks slacked off. I quite expected a great attack again at dark but it didn't come off. I fancy they were too done & couldn't be brought up to the scratch. However late this afternoon a whole lot of them appeared with white & red crescent flags, followed by a lot of unarmed men evidently with the idea of burying the dead & getting the wounded. Behind all these however we saw masses of armed men collecting & an officer who went forward to talk with their white flag saw their trenches simply crowded with fully armed men. Their idea evidently was to keep playing about in our front with their dead till dark & then probably to rush their armed men through the burial parties & confusion before we were ready, & when we could make no use of our guns in the dark. So I waved off all their flags & told them we couldn't talk
about these things so late in the evening, but would do so next morning if they wished. As soon as their flags went, they at once began a tremendous attack again. I thought this would develop into something really big. The very second I heard of their white flags I at once before doing anything else, sent round orders for every man to stand to arms in the trenches & for all my guns to be laid on their trenches, so the second they began we were ready for them & I had at least a good half hour of daylight in which to use my guns well. They gave two or three desultory attacks during the night & at 
one time began a bombardment of my poor little beach with big guns. But evidently were not on for pressing anything very much home after their recent losses. I fancy they may now think it as well to wait for still more reinforcements  as we hear they have further Divisions now coming down from Bulair, but whether to be used against me or Ian H's force I don't yet know. Goodbye my own little lamb & all my love to you
Ever your very loving old, Will. 

Mediterranean  Expdy Force