Author: William Birdwood
Date: 21 December 1915.
Rank: Field Marshall.
Location: Dardanelles
Nationality: Australian.

Text:


Dardanelles Army
21 December 1915
 
My own darling Jenny Jane.
Such a relief as it is to know that we have got through everything so satisfactorily in this withdrawal from the Peninsula - & so far more satisfactorily than I had ever dared to hope could be possible. I shall always feel that a special Providence was watching us & seeing us through this - nothing else could have ensured everything going as it did, for the weather was just exactly right throughout & broke up 24 hours later - i.e. the date I had originally decided on, but found it could be put forward a day, so I did so. The sea beautifully calm & the moon not too bright. It is wonderful. I enclose a copy of a letter I have just written to Sir Ian about it all, as I think this is the best way of giving you a description of it all & of course it is private - I mean not for any sort of publication as though there are no great details, yet it would interest the Germans to know how we got away as we did. It makes me chuckle to think of them allowing us to get all 85,000 men & 200 guns from right under their very noses without any loss, & I expect some of their officers are getting into trouble over it, though presumably they will report they killed lots of us! You can imagine the
satisfaction in seeing them bombard the whole of our trenches hard with all their guns, 5 hours after we had left them! I daresay some of our ruses there frightened them, for we had mines, bombs etc timed to go off at varying hours after we left & hearing these, they possibly thought it was a deep plot & a trap had been laid for them! You can hardly feel what a real relief it all is, & makes up to some extent for my grief in having had to leave at all, for at all events one feels no lives have been sacrificed. Had we lost men in this, as we so necessarily did on landing, it would have been awful & created a lot of bad feeling both at home & in Australia. In fact if we had had heavy losses here, I believe the Government would have been turned out! I have just got a very nice wire of congratulations from the King saying how pleased he is at the success of such difficult operations. Both my Corps Commanders, Byng & Gen. Godley (such a very nice fellow) did quite first class really leaving me very little to do, & all the credit is due to them & their staffs. Now I am writing for further ideas as to what is  become of us all in future. I still have an Army Corps of my Army at Cape Helles, but the other two
are with me here or have gone on to Egypt, & I quite expect to get orders at any time to go there myself to prepare for the big German-Turkish attack which it seems almost certain will be launched against the Canal. I shall have a lot to do if I go there as it will be a big business - but of course we also have Salonika & Helles to think of.
I hope you got my line suggesting you sending out some "Anzac" Xmas cards. I showed the one you sent me to several people & they were all so pleased with it & asked if they couldn't have copies that I thought I might as well get some to distribute, though of course it will not  in many ways be possible to give them to all - & they might be very much too late for Xmas. My head where I was hit in May has been constantly troubling me, but I have never had time to think of by sitting tight with it to let a Doctor get at it - having however a few quiet days here, I have just got a Doctor to open it out & he has discovered a long jagged bit of the casing of a bullet stuck tight there! I'm glad to say he has got rid of this, so I shan't have any more trouble now. I enclose a nice letter I have just got from
Sir Charles Monro - it was nice of him to have written - and as you may care to see & keep them I sent the telegram from the King & one from General Brulard who commands the French troops under me at Sid-el Bahr. Goodbye my own little lamb & all my love  to you. Ever your very loving old, Will.