Author: William Birdwood
Date: 4 December 1915.
Rank: Field Marshall.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

4 December 1915.  My own darling girl  I am wondering if you have suddenly got a big batch  of my letters as some one here tells me his wife after not  having heard from him for weeks has written to say that 12  letters have appeared together! Goodness knows what happens to  them, as they are impossible to trace. Lately our letters from home  have been far worse than usual - I have nothing from you since  31st October - 5 weeks ago. If however you eventually do get all  my letters I don't so much mind. The 2 stoves have just  arrived & will I am sure be real useful, little one. Harrods  had packed them very well, but both were in the same box - not   sent separately as you said. The shortbread has arrived too &   is very much appreciated at tea which we all have together  in the mess, where all your tinned fruit is also most welcome.  But as I have said do not send more.  We have just been through a really terrible time of it - worse so   than who were there - tell me they even had in France last year.  It began with a tremendous storm of rain & S.W. wind, which   suddenly turned round to N.E. and came down in a regular blizzard  of snow & sleet with 12° frost. The cold wouldn't have mattered  so much but for the wind, which simply killed the men.  The Corps on my left at Suvla had by far the worst time of  it as unfortunately there is there a lot of very low lying   ground through which run several nullahs. These all came  down in spate, 6 and 7 feet deep and in places just  washed men away and drowned them. Then came on the
extreme cold & men just froze. In one Territorial Division the  men for a great part just chucked it, leaving their trenches   & arms! Weaklings of boys I suppose who couldn't stand it.  You can imagine how bad it was when actually over 150 men  died from exposure and about 6500 had to be evacuated for exposure,  trench feet or frost bite. Some of the dead were quite frozen into the  ground & could not be removed for 2 or 3 days. A good many of  those evacuated will of course recover but they will be fearfully  shaken & probably not much good for a long time to come. Feet are  the worst things - [[once?]] feet swell they cannot get their boots on  again, while it is essential to take boots off at least once in  24 hours or you get frost bitten.  My own old Corps were not nearly so bad, as not only had  they much better country for protection, but 2 or 3 months ago  I kept urging them all to dig caves & trenches in the hill sides   for themselves, as though timber & corrugated iron had been ordered  for them for shelter, I felt sure they we should get bad weather  before the shelter arrived. Consequently nearly all my men   were comfortably provided for. Still am sorry to say some of  my Indian Brigade came in for a bad time of it. Two  Gurkha Regts were just relieving some Territorials when   the blizzard came on & could get no shelter. In one of   them, the 10th Gurkhas - about 250 men have had to be   evacuated for trench feet, & they tell me that one unfortunate  havildar will have to have both his feet amputated   for frost bite - you don't feel it coming on, & when  urged to go & get his boots off, he wouldn't do so
saying he was all right, & then when he had to go they  found him in this state - isn't it awful? Our only consolation   is, that the Turks have had a far worse time of it than  we have :  their trenches are higher up than ours and are  still full of snow. When the nullahs came down in spate, they  washed down lots of dead Turks & animals, while a deserter  who came in says practically all his company has been  wiped out & they had 2 machine guns washed away. We know  that they have practically no warm clothing or blankets, so I  fancy their losses must have been enormous. They are however   more fortunate than we are in having reserves in villages  behind there they were able to push up at once & relieve  their troops, while we have not got these. What  one would of course love to do, would be to shove on at  once & attack them while knocked out in the cold, but I am  afraid our troops are not up to this after all they have been  through. I don't know when I have been so cold - it  seemed quite impossible to keep warm at all in spite  of your hot water bottle, which came in to lovely use for  the first time! This blizzard has come a good month before   it is due as the oldest inhabitants tell us we ought not  to expect real bad weather till January, when I fear we may  have more doses of this.  I don't think the Turks got many of our men during the storm  but we got a lot of theirs who had to come out & try to get  away across the open when they were flooded out of their  trenches, their communication trenches were rivers! Rather hard 
lines to be caught like that!  I still do not know what is to happen here, as plans are so  constantly altered; we may be on for anything! I wouldn't   feel a bit anxious but for the time of year. The weather is now  so continuously bad that one cannot rely on it from one day  to another, and one can hardly count on being able to move  troops & stores etc by sea for more than 2 nights a week - which  makes the situation always serious. If you could have seen the  little Gurkhas hobbling about with their feet wrapped up in  something with their feet all swollen & every step agony, you would  realize how we have to fear the weather. You can imagine  I don't relish my daily trips on a destroyer - but it is often  too rough for one to be able to get on to one - The destruction here in  that last storm was awful - about a dozen steam boats all  piled up one on top of the shore, which means a fearful loss  of power to us.  Goodbye my own little wife - I fear this is rather a gloomy   letter. I enclose letters you may care to see from Genl Smith-  Dorrien & Genl Cox (who I am glad to say is now K.C.M.G.)  & one from my Uncle Roger which is interesting if one realizes  that a few years ago he was an Atheist!  Ever so much love to you always --  Ever your very loving old, Will.  Just had a couple of German aeroplanes dropping bombs over  us! Bad shots though.

Alterations  in important  plans which  I personally  hate - so I  am really  bothered - &  have practically  no staff to help  me.  All my love then   Ever your very   Loving old   Will 
