Author: William Birdwood
Date: 12 October 1915.
Rank: Field Marshall.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:



Address  my letters  in future  Head Quarters  M.E.F.*]     H.M.S. Lord Nelson  12 October 1915     My own darling Jenny Jane.  Here I am at Mudros with dear old Lord K who I was  delighted to see again & who was I think really pleased to see me. I  have never seen him so gentle, soft & kind in his manner - the way he  took hold of my arm & at once walked me off up the deck when he  came on board was quite unlike his old rather abrupt, shy way  with people. We seem to have at once dropped into all our old  friendship & knowing each other, and I can see he is quite glad   to have me to talk to & has naturally been most interesting  telling me about so much that has been going on in the Cabinet  at home all this time. He is of course longing for the war to be  over & to get away from it all - but there seems little chance  of this for a long time yet.  I am glad to say he has agreed to what I asked him to do -  viz to leave Genl. Monro in command of this force - as I told  him I was quite prepared to undertake the responsibility - but  for his sake & Monro's I felt it would be an enormous  mistake if Monro was removed.  It would only cause  unnecessary & very undesirable comment - he would be 
accused of making changes without reason & not knowing  his own mind which could not help creating a bad impression  in this country & throughout the service - but it would be very hard  lines on Monro who had been taken from a big Army Command in  France for this. I had as I think I told you, received a  wire from the Prime Minister after K. left home definitely  appointing me as Chief here, but this I suppressed, so it  has never been given out officially given out & consequently  there is no trouble. Monro will now command the whole force,  though at present things are rather difficult, as we are both  here & K. will insist on treating me as Chief & referring to me  about everything, while Monro looks on! It is most uncomfortable  & I always have to try & refer to Monro, who fortunately  seems an exceedingly nice fellow (he is 5 & might well be  10 years older than me from his appearance) & does not take  the offence some men might do. When K. has gone things  will settle down a lot in this respect & I am sure he  will bear no malice - indeed he should be & I believe  is very grateful to me for what I have done for him. I   found as I expected that K. had been so annoyed at  his proposals regarding the force here, that he had there   & then moved him on to something else & put me in 
command. Nothing whatever is yet settled as to the future.  We are having constant correspondence with the Prime Minister  on the subject & much is being discussed, but it is impossible  to say as yet what will happen & I can not go into our plans.  I am not too happy about them, but the whole question is  most extraordinary & complex, for military & political considerations  are to some extent antagonistic to each other. Whatever  it is, it is bound to be a very hard & difficult job, & I am so  glad to know that I shall be with my men for this to see them  through it, rather than away & out of danger as I should have been  at Head Quarters on an Island as Chief. I go back to Anzac  directly Lord K. leaves.  I have just got your letters of 14th & 19th Oct. Many thanks  little one, for ordering the parafin stove for me & I am sure &   hope they will arrive all right & will be most useful, as  during the winter, the difficulty of getting ones clothes dry  will be one of our greatest. That & keeping warm on  cold, wet days - however we will get on all right.  I think everything you have sent out has arrived all   right (except the shortbread, though that may have turned  up while I was have been away from Anzac) & I expect that before  now you will have got my letters telling you so, for 
I have written this more than once - and please little one,  only send the one tin of fruit in future, as I honestly can't  get through nearly all you have already sent - there was  terrible tribulation on Anzac when they thought I might be  leaving them altogether & I think they are all pleased I am not  now to do so. I took Lord K. ashore there yesterday - he was dead  keen on seeing the men & I think much impressed by what he  saw for he has wired home saying he had no idea we had  captured such an exceedingly difficult position as it is, &  which has to be seen to be realised. I took him right up to  a front trench within 25 yards of the Turk trenches, but in  perfect safety. I was only anxious about him the whole  time we were outside the trenches, for you can never tell  when shelling may not start & they can come anywhere:  indeed I was almost most nervous about him when disembarking   for they often fire at destroyers - however I made  our boat stand well out for the picket boat to come  out to - it was a bit rough too & I was very glad he had  to see some of our difficulties in that way. If we  should ever have to leave, Sir John Moore's retreat at  Corunna would be absolute child's play to the difficulties  we will have to meet of embarking from an open beach 
with sea that is bound to be rough & under heavy fire of all sorts. However we will get over all that if it has to be done.  I do think it is most awfully good of that old Mrs. Stedall to be so nice to you & I will certainly try & see the son if I can. He is probably at Mudros now as the 2nd Mtd. Division is resting there. They are under Genl. Peyton in Byng's Corps on my left when on the peninsula. You didn't tell me the results of Judith's visit to Dr Goss - what had he to say about her eyes? Nothing bad I hope. You evidently had a great run round when in town & I'm so glad you saw Mrs Onslow & Mrs. Cobbe. I am waiting to write to the former until I can get a photo I expect shortly of her boy's grave. I enclose a letter for you to see I got from Capt. Lloyd's wife, who I think  I told you I met in Cairo -  Such a very nice woman & great friend of dear old Gen Dighton's.  Lloyd hasn't yet come back here & I doubt if he will do so for some time yet. I hear Mrs. Sheen went out to Walter & they both left there for England about the 7th of this month as he was invalided for 3 months. Do write to them & find out where they are & if possible see him, for he is such a dear good fellow & I'll be very glad to get him back in due course.  I hear 
he has had a bad time of it, as he has had neuritis added to all his other troubles. In case you didn't see it I enclose a photo which appeared of me in the Illustrated which may be of interest as it I am with Wangard's friend Admiral Thursby on the "Queen" - his flagship from which I made our landing at Anzac on 25th April. He is a dear good fellow & is now Commanding a Squadron working with the Italians in the Adriatic.   I'm so glad you continue to see so much of Australians & it's  always gratifying to know they appreciate anything we can do  for them here or at home - Fancy your having actually heard the  Zeppelin bombs & I am indeed thankful you were not any nearer  than you were! for those bombs are terribly powerful things  as a good many men know to their cost.  Later.  I am afraid that Lord K has after all decided that  I am to take over the command of all Sir Ian's late force while Genl. Monro is to combine this & the 'troops' at Salonika. It means I have to leave Anzac & my old Staff & troops, & can only see them occasionally instead of daily.  I'll go over & see them as often as I can, but with 2 other Army Corps to look after, I'll not have  very much time for them - & there is always the sea to get over to get at them - all right in the Summer, but pretty beastly now, as I know after 2 very horrible days yesterday & today in Destroyers!! Goodbye my own little lamb - I only just have time to catch  the mail - All my love. From your very loving old, Will.