Author: William Birdwood
Date: 23 October 1915.
Location: Kephalos Imbros
Rank: Field Marshall.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:

H.M.S. Cornwallis.  Kephalos. Imbros.  23 Oct 15.     My own darling Jenny Jane.  I am still here at head quarters in the  proud position of Commander-in-Chief for a few days  longer until Sir C. Monro arrives. That best of fellows, the  Admiral here - de Robeck - seized me when I arrived &  seeing I wasn't quite fit, insisted on my going at once on  to a ship & here have I been very comfortable on this  battleship - such a nice fellow in a Capt. Davidson in  command, who has looked after me as I tell him Sir  Ian described the fleet - as the Father & Mother of the Army.  Just these few days has made a most wonderful difference  to me & I am now absolutely right & myself again. My  servant was very funny the first night I went on board  & he saw nice clean sheets on my bed "This will be a nice change tonight, Sir - it'll seem quite strange 
to have nice sheets again". I must say it does seem  extraordinary nice having everything clean again - especially  clean food & a real lovely warm bath. Davidson has been most  awfully good in having custard puddings etc for me & I   now really am as fit as ever & am going permanently on   shore tomorrow. The last few days I have been there during  the day to deal with work, as I find I have a good  deal to do. As C-in-C I have great power in ways & can  give commissions - temporary or permanent - on my own - a  certain number of D.S.O's & Military Crosses quite on my own &  any D.C. Medals - but of course only to men in this force.  Also I am sorry to say I have to deal with & confirm many   Courts martial.  The Admiral has been off to Mudros, but comes back today.  I've known nothing of the political situation in the Balkans  which looks about as bad as it could be, but I suppose  Monro will come out with full instructions from home. 
I have had to wire home a full account to the   Cabinet of my own views on the situation, which was not  at all an easy thing to do when I am only in command for  such a very brief period.  I have a very nice fellow in a Genl. Ellison acting as my Chief  General Staff in place of Braithwaite who went home with Sir  Ian, Genl. Monro will bring his own man, who will I expect be  a Genl. Kiggell who was with Sir Redvers & Lord K in S. Africa  & is a first class & very nice fellow. Genl. Byng has of course  been most awfully nice in serving under me as he is now  doing, for he is of course much senior - While just fancy - I  have just had a letter from poor old Sir James Willcocks asking  if I will have him out to come & serve under me too!!  He said he absolutely could not continue to serve any longer  under Haig who bullied him so, that he finally had to  decide to chuck it. I am so very sorry indeed for him   as I know how much he will have felt it, & there is  no doubt but that he is a good man. He was full of 
enthusiasm for the way in which Lord K. had received him  & for all his kindness, & was full of hope of getting another  command in due course, but it is rather hard to see what he  can get - unless he were to go to East Africa - and of course  he couldn't well come & serve in my Army Corps. I do think   though that he might well have come here when Sir Ian  went & in pl his place, for I quite think he would have  been the very best man for it - he has so much experience -  Poor Sir Ian had to leave here the very day a new horse had  been got ready for him & he was to have changed his Head  Quarters from one to the other side of the Island. My servant described  it as "a huge place" & felt sure I'd feel lost in it! As a   matter of fact it is only 2 wooden rooms, but very nicely  situated & will be comfortable enough. It is strange that I shall  be occupying it as the first C-in-C - and proud I am  to be doing so. I shall be quite happy though to return to  my humble dugout at Anzac. It's horribly cold here  just at present & I don't at all relish leaving "Cornwallis"  permanently for the shore! For some extraordinary reason  they have made no fireplace in the Chiefs quarters, the 
intention being to warm it by a stove which hasn't yet arrived!  I daresay Genl. Monro will have one, & I hear some are expected any day. One of the midshipmen on board "Cornwallis", is I find a son of Col. Malleson's & he got a V.C. at the landing at Cape Helles on 25th April.  Such a fine looking boy he is & he has struck me as a fine sailor too, in the way he has handled his piquet boat two or three times when he has landed me or taken me aboard in this horrible rough weather we have been having here lately - it's been blowing a storm day after day, & it's often doubtful if a boat can be got alongside the ship at all or not. I haven't liked to ask the boy about his Mother - he told me he hadn't seen his Father for several years - and I noticed that one of the picture days papers the other day published  a photo of the present Mrs M - as his Mother!!

Do you remember that comical fellow who used often to send  me newspaper cuttings - he was a telegraphist with on Lord K's  staff in Pretoria. He sent me a cutting of that picture of me swimming which he had marked "From photo taken by Mrs Pankhurst" I have just heard that Genl. Monro arrives 27th or 28th when I'll go back to Anzac. I am very sorry to see that poor little Davidson-Houston of the 58th is missing in France, which I fear must mean   almost to a certainty that he is dead - and Captain Whitehead of 56th - do you remember what a real  reckless fellow he was - just the man to be killed in his first charge, for nothing but bullets or bayonets would ever have stopped him. Another death I am so sorry about is poor old Sir a. [[Ken?]]. He was such a dear single minded & simple old fellow & I fear it will   must leave her very lonely. I suppose she will  leave India now & go home for good,  but with house
property as they have out there it must take  some settling up. I fancy old Sir James Walker  will have to go out again to help look after the bank  a bit.  I am absolutely all right again now little one, so   don't you think I in not - and after a week's beastly weather I'm glad to say it has now cleared   up & we are having a lovely day.  Tomorrow I am going all round the French position  & trenches - as C -in C for the time being they come  under me, & I may just as well see something  of them. When you go there however, I hear the  important thing in their eyes is the dējeuner  which is most elaborate, & as a sort of secondary  idea you see their trenches! A great part  of their troops here are Africans & I don't fancy  very much good. To show that I have been  a C -in C even if only for a short time, I enclose a copy of my first order on taking   over!  Goodbye my own little lamb - All my love  to you always  Ever your very loving old  Will    