Author: R Wingate
Date: 21 October 1917
Location: Cairo Egypt 
Nationality: British

Text:


The Residency Cairo 21st October 1917 Dictated.   My dear Birdwood    I have to thank you very warmly for your letters of the 7th and 10th September and for the very interesting news you sent me.   Since these letters were written, your magnificent Corps has again covered itself with glory and I would like to add my congratulations to the hundreds of others you must have received on the splendid successes that have been obtained in Flanders and to which the ANZACS have so materially contributed. I am afraid it means that you have lost many good men and true, but they have died in a great cause and now I hope that the ground you have gained will enable you to dominate the Huns and pound them incessantly in their mud-flats below.  I wish I had time to write to you at greater length but all the momentous events of the past few weeks in this part of the world have taken up all my spare time and my correspondence is hopelessly in arrears:  I wanted, 
however, to tell you what a real sincere affection our mutual  old friend the late Sultan had for you, and never an audience passed that he did not refer to his long standing friendship for you.   I enclose the copy of a Ietter I had from the new  Sultan in which he refers with gratitude to your much appreciated telegram on the death of his brother - He also spoke to me when I saw him and begged me to convey to you his cordial thanks.  Everything is now shaping fairly well here and Allenby is full of work in his particular sphere and I hope it will not be long before some good news comes.  If  you see my old friend Smyth will you explain to him the reasons why I have not answered his letter - I am always putting off the time till I can spin him a yarn of some length, but that time never seems to come. With best wishes for continued success and good Iuck. Believe me,     Yours Very Sincerely R. however, to tell you what a real sincere affection our mutual  old friend the late Sultan had for you, and never an audience passed that he did not refer to his long standing friendship for you.   I enclose the copy of a Ietter I had from the new  Sultan in which he refers with gratitude to your much appreciated telegram on the death of his brother - He also spoke to me when I saw him and begged me to convey to you his cordial thanks.  Everything is now shaping fairly well here and Allenby is full of work in his particular sphere and I hope it will not be long before some good news comes.  If  you see my old friend Smyth will you explain to him the reasons why I have not answered his letter - I am always putting off the time till I can spin him a yarn of some length, but that time never seems to come. With best wishes for continued success and good Iuck. Believe me,     Yours Very Sincerely R. Wingate.   General Sir W. Birdwood, K.C.B., K.C.M.G., &c Commanding ANZAC Corps, B.E.F. France.    