Author: William Birdwood
Date: 8 December 1915.
Location: Daedanelles
Rank: Field Marshall.
Nationality: Australian.

Text:


Dardanelles Army  8 December 1915     My own darling girl.  The mails are getting worse than ever, for the last I  have from you is still 31st October! And I have just had a wire to  say that an Austrian submarine has captured the mails we  sent from here on 30th last month - they say that some of the letters were  rescued by two ladies. That is all we know, & I am afraid the  majority must have gone. These were all in charge of the Kings messenger  which we naturally always look upon as quite the safest &  quickest way to send them. I certainly sent one letter by him to you -  and I rather think two, for there had been no chance of writing  for some time - and I think I sent letters to both Nancy & Chris  with photos & stamps.  It is hard to remember what letters went  by that particular mail, but I rather think it would have contained   a long one I wrote from H.M.S. Lord Nelson. I wish you would try &   remember when you answer this if you got one dated addressed from there &   dated about 24th or 25th November? I fancy it is quite possible   that in it I answered - as I have done two or three times now!  about all the things you have written about. Mrs Hilton's money  for Chris - all the parcels you have sent me, & all of which I have  I think received - your investments etc. Isn't it awfully   annoying this sort of thing happening, for it means one never  knows where one is - what we have either of us received or not,  if letters are liable to be captured one has to be so very  careful in future to write nothing about events here. I   am afraid too it must be nearly certain that one of  your letters must have gone down in the mail which was
torpedoed & sunk between Egypt & here about a month ago & goodness knows what it contained! 1900 mail bags of sorts!     If my letter which must now have gone astray was about money matters - & if you have not already done so - will you be sure to let me know if a sum of about £50 or 52 was credited to our account in the N. Bank of India at least 3 or 4 months ago. It was for lodging allowance in Egypt & I particularly want to know about it - as if it hasn't been so credited I must see about it and get it this done as soon as possible. I expect though before this reaches you, you will already have written to tell me about it - I can't remember what all the other items were about, but I hope that in any case you will have had answers about them by other letters, as I have now mentioned them so often!!   I hope Major Storr will have sent you that New Zealand greenstone "Tiki" which Sir H. Meux sent me. Will you please send me back the typed description (or better still a copy of it) which I want to show to some of the Maoris here, as I am told they can tell me a lot of most interesting history about it, if I ever show them this, while the "tiki" itself, they say would be at once recognised! A New Zealander to whom I was talking about it a few days ago, told me he had had to pay £40 a short time ago for a quite inferior one about 50 years old & that this, would be valued out there at quite a high figure - in fact he said at it was almost priceless.   I am glad to say my men are getting well over the effects 
of that blizzard, though the numbers I had to send away were  awful & I shall never forget, the misery of seeing wretched fellows  hobbling along with their feet wrapped up in sacking & every  step being agony - Too many of them for all to be carried, so all  but bad cases had to hobble to the beach to be taken off to the  hospital ships.  I have been seeing a good deal of the French troops lately - they are such a contrast to ours, especially in their native troops.  The Senegalese are huge great niggers & just as black as the blackest  of boots! Absolutely like tar right to the inside of their lips! They   absolutely curl up with the cold, so we are arranging to  send them all off from here & they will be replaced by French  men. Then they have West Indians too from Guadalupe &  Martinique - smaller & brown men - a great many half caste  French I fancy. They are French Citizens & Christians. Being  citizens they are conscripted & have all the privileges of a  Frenchman, & consequently are absolutely mixed up with  them in every company - got the same food, clothes etc - & live  entirely with the Europeans. To us after the Indian Army this  seems so strange. The Senegalese are mostly Muhammadans  but some are heathens & idol worshippers. Hardly any of the  French officers can talk to them in their own language, but  most of them have learnt a certain amount of French - half  their N.C.O's are French.  Do you remember Major Pollok in the Black Watch? He was A.D.C to old Sir. A. Reid & was asking after  you & your Father when I saw him the other day 
at Helles. I think he was then, or became afterwards Pollok- Moins, but has now become Pollok-McCall - money I suppose  in commanding a Territorial Brigade. Quite a nice fellow, &  was very anxious about being remembered to you both - You have never in any of your letters told me anything about Wylly - beyond the fact that he was wounded long ago - Is he quite all right again now & back with his Brigade? I heard from some Tasmanians who were writing to me about a son of theirs here, that he had been staying at Thurlby to convalesce & wanted to know how he was - I could only say I didn't know he had been there, but thought he was right again now. I am hoping to get Wagstaff as my A.M.S. He is really much too good for it & will lose a lot of pay in by coming, so it is only with reluctance for his sake that I haven't quite liked taking him, but he has been so very nice in insisting on his keenness of coming with me in any capacity that I have asked for him, & will naturally be delighted to have him with me - In fact, I have been so very touched, by all my old Staff, coming up one after the other & imploring me to have them on my Army Staff - this I can not well do, as naturally Godley can not spare them all nor have I places for them all here. I am so glad he has succeeded me in the Army Corps, as he is such a real good fellow, who has worked for me most loyally in Command of the New Zealanders ever since we started in Egypt a year ago. I am sending some rather nice snapshots which were taken at different times when Lord K was here. Goodbye my own little wife - I am having a very difficult & most trying time of it with many.
Will