Author: F S Maude
Date: 5 September 1917
Location: Mesopotamian
Nationality: British

Text:



General Headquarters  Mesopotamian Expeditionary Force.  5th September, 1917.     My dear friend  Many thanks for your letter dated June 26th., which has  only just reached me, so you will see how long it takes ∧for letters  to filter out here.  I felt sure that you of all people would appreciate the   splendid work that was done by the Indian troops during the   advance on Baghdad. No praise of mine can be too high for  the magnificent way in which they fought and won, and as you  may well understand I look forward to  the coming winter-  strenuous though it may be - with every confidence, backed  as I am by such men both British and Indian.  The troops have had a good rest, and I got them into  their summer quarters early in May, and from the recent visits  which I have paid to them from time to time I am satisfied  that they are in the pink of condition. We have been able   to feed them well during the summer, and consequently they   feel well and will fight well.  The great difficulty I find is getting about here, as I  have such long distances to cover, seeing that we are  operating now on three river lines which diverge from one  another, namely the Dialah, Tigris and Euphrates. But by  means of glisseurs, which are a type of boat which cover from  30 to 40 miles an hour, and aeroplanes I manage to get from  point to point fairly quickly. As regards the glisseurs, I  am getting a new type out here which will cover approximately  50 miles an hour, so that will be a greater improvement.  Motoring is pain and grief to me because the roads are so bad,  and and so when I am on terra firma I generally ride, if distances  are at all possible.  We have had an intensely hot summer, and one particularly  bad heat wave at the beginning of July was responsible for a  number of deaths even among the strongest, but taking it all  in all our sickrate has been remarkable compared to last year,  and the admissions have never exceeded 2.5% per week. They  have varied between 1.7 and 2.5% throughout the summer, which  is not so bad considering the intense heat to which we have  been subjected. Now the evenings, nights and mornings are    a good deal cooler, and though the middle of the day is still  very hot it makes a lot of difference to get these cool spells  in between.  During the off-time - so to speak - from military  operations my work has increased if anything, for there has  been so much to do here reorganising, developing and preparing  for the future.  Our river transport has done wonderfully, as  the river is now about at its lowest, and yet in spite of this  we have had remarkably few groundings, and what there have been  have not lasted for long. This reflects great credit on the   efficiency of the Inland Water Transport and especially on   the buoying section.  Our railways, too, have shown an  enormous  development during the summer, and it is wonderful to see  the way in which all have worked and put their backs into it.  The result is that our communications around and in advance of  Baghdad are improving almost daily, and you will readily  understand what a difference that means to us.  Operations have of course been impossible, but recently  we pushed out and occupied Belez Ruz and Shahraban towards  the Jebel Hamrin, as  it was necessary to get possession of  those places and turn the Turks out of them owing to the   defection of the Russians on our right flank. Their inactivity  has  been a great disappointment, for I feel confident that if  they had pushed along in April last this campaign would have  been over by now; and even as it is if they would only come  along we might finish it off this winter. But I am afraid  that things are pretty hopeless with them and that we shall  have to rely on ourselves mainly. This I have no doubt this  splendid army will be fully able to do, unless the whole  Turkish Army is arrayed against us and we are swamped by  numbers.  Things seem to be going along well on the Western front,   and the British, French and italians - especially the latter -  are progressing well. The black spot is further East, where  we hear that Riga has just fallen, and possibly I suppose  there is not much between the Germans and St. Petersburg.  Truly the Russians have made idiots of themselves, not only  in prolonging the war but in ruining their future, and it is  at least a good example of what can be brought about by  upsetting old institutions and the introduction of mob law.  I was most intensely interested in the enclosure which  you sent me giving an account of the fighting of the 1st  Anzac Corps in the early part of the year. The old Corps  seems indeed to have done splendidly and to have added one   more crushing success to the long list which it has already  gained.  I hope that Alec Godley continues to flourish and that  all goes well with him and his Corps. I presume that they  are alongside with you?  I met Risaldar-Major Husam-ud-Din last November just after  I took over command when I went up to visit the Oilfields  before proceeding to the front, and had a long   talk to him.  He seemed a most capable and intelligent person, and I rather   fancy - though I am not sure - that he has got some special  job job now. However I had already made a mental note of him  in case I wanted anybody special of that kind.  Best remembrances to all old friends.  MacMunn is doing first rate here, and I am just sending  him off to India for a few days to get things put straight at   that end.  Cox is also here as Chief Political Officer. I have  known him ever since I was at Sandhurst with him and so we are  old friends and get along capitally together. My only  difficulty is occasionally to make him see that it is necessary  that military considerations should prevail whilst we are at  war - but in the end he is convinced all right.  Please forgive this line but I am so busy  yrs sincerely  F.S. Maude  Maude     To:  Lieut.-General Sir W. Birdwood  K.C.S.I., K.C.M.G.,C.B.,C.I.E.,D.S.O.,  Commanding 1st Anzac Corps,  British Army in the Field,  FRANCE. 